.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpass.3	6.5 (Berkeley) 5/21/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:41:51 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Corrected incorrect title pointed out by meem@sherilyn.wustl.edu,
.\"   aeb, 961108.
.\"
.TH GETPASS 3  "29 November 1993" "BSD MANPAGE" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getpass \- get a password
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B "char *getpass( const char *" prompt );
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B getpass
function displays a prompt to the standard error output, and reads in a
password from
.IR /dev/tty .
If this file is not accessible,
.B getpass
reads from the standard input.
.PP
The password may be up to 128 characters in length, including a trailing
NUL.  Any additional characters and the terminating newline character
are discarded.
.PP
.B Getpass
turns off character echoing and disables the generation of signals by
tty special characters (interrupt by control-C, suspend by control-Z,
etc.) while reading the password.
.PP
.SH "RETURN VALUES"
.B Getpass
returns a pointer to the null terminated password.
.SH FILES
.I /dev/tty
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR crypt (3)
.SH HISTORY
A
.B getpass
function appeared in Version 7 AT&T UNIX.
.SH BUGS
The
.B getpass
function leaves its result in an internal static object and returns a
pointer to that object.  Subsequent calls to
.B getpass
will modify the same object.
.PP
The calling process should zero the password as soon as possible to avoid
leaving the cleartext password visible in the process's address space.
