.\" Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza <m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified, jmv@lucifer.dorms.spbu.ru, 1999-11-08
.\"
.TH STRPTIME 3 "26 September 1994"  "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strptime \- convert a string representation of time to a time tm structure
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strptime(const char *" s ", const char *" format ,
.BI "struct tm *" tm );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.LP
.IX  "strptime function"  ""  "\fLstrptime()\fP \(em date and time conversion"
.B strptime(\|)
is the complementary function to
.B strftime(\|)
and converts the character string pointed to by
.I s
to a time value, which is stored in the
.B tm
structure pointed to by
.IR tm ,
using the format specified by
.IR format .
.I format
is a character string that consists of field descriptors and text characters,
reminiscent of
.BR scanf (3).
Each field descriptor consists of a
.B %
character followed by another character that specifies the replacement for the
field descriptor.
All other characters in the 
.I format 
string must have a matching character in the input string.  Exceptions
are white spaces in the format string which can match zero or more
white space characters in the input string.
.PP
The \fBstrptime()\fP function processes the input string from right to
left.  Each of the three possible input elements (white space,
literal, or format) are handled one after the other.  If the input
cannot be matched to the format string the function stops.  The
remainder of the format and input strings are not processed.
.PP
The following field descriptors are supported:
.RS
.TP
.B %%
same as
.B %
.TP
.B %a
.PD 0
.TP
.B %A
day of week, using locale's weekday names; either the abbreviated or full name
may be specified
.PD
.TP
.B %b
.PD 0
.TP
.B %B
.TP
.B %h
month, using locale's month names; either the abbreviated or full name
may be specified
.PD
.TP
.B %c
date and time as %x %X
.TP
.B %C
date and time, in locale's long-format date and time representation
.TP
.B %d
.PD 0
.TP
.B %e
day of month (1-31; leading zeroes are permitted but not required)
.PD
.TP
.B %D
date as %m/%d/%y
.TP
.B %H
.PD 0
.TP
.B %k
hour (0-23; leading zeroes are permitted but not required)
.PD
.TP
.B %I
.PD 0
.TP
.B %l
hour (0-12; leading zeroes are permitted but not required)
.PD
.TP
.B %j
day number of year (001-366)
.TP
.B %m
month number (1-12; leading zeroes are permitted but not required)
.TP
.B %M
minute (0-59; leading zeroes are permitted but not required)
.TP
.B %p
locale's equivalent of
.SM AM
or
.SM PM
.TP
.B %r
time as %I:%M:%S %p
.TP
.B %R
time as %H:%M
.TP
.B %S
seconds (0-61; leading zeroes are permitted but not required. Extra second
allowed for leap years)
.TP
.B %T
time as %H:%M:%S
.TP
.B %w
weekday number (0-6) with Sunday as the first day of the week 
.TP
.B %x
date, using locale's date format
.TP
.B %X
time, using locale's time format
.TP
.B %y
year within century (0-99; leading zeroes are permitted but not required.
Unfortunately this makes the assumption that we are stuck in the 20th
century as 1900 is automatically added onto this number for the tm_year
field)
.TP
.B %Y
year, including century (for example, 1988)
.RE
.LP
Case is ignored when matching items such as month or weekday names.
.LP
The broken-down time structure \fItm\fP is defined in \fI<time.h>\fP
as follows:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 12
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct tm
{
	int	tm_sec;			/* seconds */
	int	tm_min;			/* minutes */
	int	tm_hour;		/* hours */
	int	tm_mday;		/* day of the month */
	int	tm_mon;			/* month */
	int	tm_year;		/* year */
	int	tm_wday;		/* day of the week */
	int	tm_yday;		/* day in the year */
	int	tm_isdst;		/* daylight saving time */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The return value of the function is a pointer to the first character
not processed in this function call.  In case the input string
contains more characters than required by the format string the return
value points right after the last consumed input character.  In case
the whole input string is consumed the return value points to the NUL
byte at the end of the string.  If \fBstrptime()\fP fails to match all
of the format string and therefore an error occurred the function
returns \fBNULL\fP.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR strftime "(3), " time "(2), " setlocale "(3), " scanf (3)
.SH NOTES
.LP
The specification of the function in the XPG standard is rather vague.
It leaves out a few important pieces of information.  Most important
it does not specify what happens to those elements of \fBtm\fP which
are not directly initialized by the different formats.  Various
implementations on different Unix systems vary here.
.PP
The GNU libc implementation does not touch those fields which are not
directly initialized.  Exceptions are the 
.IR tm_wday
and
.IR tm_yday 
elements which are recomputed if any of the year, month,
or date elements changed.
.PP
This function is only available in libraries newer than version 4.6.5.
Linux libc4 and libc5 includes define the prototype unconditionally;
glibc2 includes provide a prototype only when _XOPEN_SOURCE or _GNU_SOURCE
are defined.
.PP
The function supports only those locales specified in
.BR locale "(7)"

