.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:54:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Fixed typo, aeb , 950823
.\"
.TH STRTOUL 3  "March 29, 1993" "GNU" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
strtoul \- convert a string to an unsigned long integer.
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int strtoul(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr ,
.BR int " base" )
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBstrtoul()\fP function converts the string in \fInptr\fP to an
unsigned long integer value according to the given \fIbase\fP, which 
must be between 2 and 36 inclusive, or be the special value 0.
.PP
The string must begin with an arbitrary amount of white space (as
determined by
.BR isspace (3))
followed by a single optional `+' or `-'
sign.  If \fIbase\fP is zero or 16, the string may then include a 
`0x' prefix, and the number will be read in base 16; otherwise, a 
zero \fIbase\fP is taken as 10 (decimal) unless the next character
is `0', in which case it is taken as 8 (octal).
.PP
The remainder of the string is converted to an unsigned long int value
in the obvious manner, stopping at the first character which is not a 
valid digit in the given base.  (In bases above 10, the letter `A' in
either upper or lower case represents 10, `B' represents 11, and so
forth, with `Z' representing 35.)
.PP
If \fIendptr\fP is not NULL, \fBstrtoul()\fP stores the address of the
first invalid character in \fI*endptr\fP.  If there were no digits at
all, \fBstrtoul()\fP stores the original value of \fInptr\fP in
\fI*endptr\fP.  (Thus, if \fI*nptr\fP is not `\\0' but \fI**endptr\fP
is `\\0' on return, the entire string is valid.)
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
The \fBstrtoul()\fP function returns either the result of the conversion
or, if there was a leading minus sign, the negation of the result of the
conversion, unless the original (non-negated) value would overflow; in
the latter case, \fBstrtoul()\fP returns ULONG_MAX and sets the global
variable \fIerrno\fP to ERANGE.
.SH "ERRORS"
.TP
.B ERANGE
The given string was out of range; the value converted has been clamped.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR atof "(3), " atoi "(3), " atol "(3), " strtod "(3), " strtol (3)
.SH BUGS
Ignores the current locale.
