.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:43:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Apr  1 22:56:49 2001 by aeb
.TH USLEEP 3  2001-04-02 "" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
usleep \- suspend execution for microsecond intervals
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void usleep(unsigned long " usec );
.br
.BI "int usleep(unsigned long " usec "); /* SUSv2 */"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBusleep()\fP function suspends execution of the calling process for
\fIusec\fP microseconds.  The sleep may be lengthened slightly by any 
system activity or by the time spent processing the call.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
None (BSD). Or: 0 on success, \-1 on error (SUSv2).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
EINTR
Interrupted by a signal.
.TP
EINVAL
\fIusec\fP is not smaller than 1000000.
(On systems where that is considered an error.)
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
BSD 4.3.
The SUSv2 version returns int, and this is also the prototype
used by glibc 2.2.2.
Only the EINVAL error return is documented by SUSv2.
.SH NOTES
The interaction of this function with SIGALRM and other timer functions
such as
.IR sleep (),
.IR alarm (),
.IR setitimer (),
.IR nanosleep ()
is unspecified.
This function is obsolete. Use
.BR nanosleep (2)
or
.BR setitimer (2)
instead.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR alarm (2),
.BR getitimer (2),
.BR nanosleep (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR sleep (3)
