.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)banner.6	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\"(c) Copyright Julio 1998 Translation Roman Ramirez <patowc@encomix.es>
.\"
.TH BANNER 6 "6 Junio 1993"
.UC
.SH NOMBRE
banner \- imprime un título grande en la impresora
.SH SINOPSIS
.B /usr/games/banner
[
.BI \-w n
]
mensaje ...
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.I Banner
imprime un título grande y de gran calidad en la salida estandar.
Si se omite el mensaje, pregunta por él, y
lee una línea de su entrada estandar. Si 
.B \-w
se incluye, la salida se achata desde una anchura de 132 a
.I n ,
conveniente para una terminal más estrecha. Si 
.I n
se omite, su valor por defecto será 80.
.PP
La salida debería ser impresa en un dispositivo de copia física, de hasta 132 columnas de ancho,
sin caracteres de interrupción de página. El volumen es lo suficientemente grande para que se desee una impresora o una terminal rápida de copia fisica
, pero si se es paciente, una
decwriter u otra terminal de 300 baudios puede hacerlo.
.SH BUGS
Agunos caracteres ASCII no están definidos, destacando <, >, [, ], \\,
^, _, {, }, |, y ~.  También, los caracteres ", ', y & tienen un aspecto
divertido (pero util.)
.PP
La opción
.B \-w
se implementa saltando algunas filas y columnas.
Cuanto más pequeño se haga, más grano tendrá la salida.
Algunas veces mezcla las letras.
.SH AUTOR
Mark Horton
