.\" Copyright (c) 1997 Martin Schulze (joey@infodrom.north.de)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Much of the text is copied from the manpage of resolv+(8).
.\"
.TH HOST.CONF 5 1997-01-02 "Debian GNU/Linux" "Linux System Administration"
.SH NAME
host.conf \- resolver configuration file
.SH DESCRIPTION
The file
.I /etc/host.conf
contains configuration information specific to the resolver library.
It should contain one configuration keyword per line, followed by
appropriate configuration information.  The keywords recognized are
.IR order ", " trim ", " multi ", " nospoof ", and " reorder .
These keywords are described below.

.TP
.I order
This keyword specifies how host lookups are to be performed.  It
should be followed by one or more lookup methods, separated by commas.
Valid methods are
.IR bind ", " hosts ", and " nis .
.TP
.I trim 
This keyword may be listed more than once.  Each time it should be
followed by a single domain name, with the leading dot.  When set, the
resolv+ library will automatically trim the given domain name from the
end of any hostname resolved via DNS.  This is intended for use with
local hosts and domains.  (Related note: trim will not affect host-
names gathered via NIS or the hosts file.  Care should be taken to
ensure that the first hostname for each entry in the hosts file is
fully qualified or non-qualified, as appropriate for the local
installation.)
.TP
.I multi
Valid values are
.IR on " and " off .
If set to
.IR on ,
the resolv+ library will return all valid addresses for a host that
appears in the
.I /etc/hosts
file,
instead of only the first.  This is
.I off
by default, as it may cause a substantial performance loss at sites
with large hosts files.
.TP
.I nospoof
Valid values are
.IR on " and " off .
If set to
.IR on ,
the resolv+ library will attempt to prevent hostname spoofing to
enhance the security of
.BR rlogin " and " rsh .
It works as follows: after performing a host address lookup, resolv+
will perform a hostname lookup for that address.  If the two hostnames
do not match, the query will fail.
.TP
.I spoofalert
If this option is set to
.I on
and the
.I nospoof
option is also set, resolv+ will log a warning of the error via the
syslog facility.  The default value is
.IR off .
.TP
.I reorder
Valid values are
.IR on " and " off .
If set to
.IR on ,
resolv+ will attempt to reorder host addresses so that local addresses
(i.e., on the same subnet) are listed first when a
.BR gethostbyname (3)
is performed.  Reordering is done for all lookup methods.  The default
value is
.IR off .
.SH FILES
.TP
.I /etc/host.conf
Resolver configuration file
.TP
.I /etc/resolv.conf
Resolver configuration file
.TP
.I /etc/hosts
Local hosts database
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gethostbyname (3),
.BR hostname (7),
.BR resolv+ (8),
.BR named (8)
