.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)colrm.1	6.6 (Berkeley) 3/14/91
.\"
.\" Translated 22 Jul 1998 by Roberto Rodríguez Fernández (rrf@apdo.com)
.\"
.Dd 14 Marzo 1991
.Dt COLRM 1
.Os BSD 3
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm colrm
.Nd elimina columnas de un fichero
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Nm colrm
.Op Ar startcol Op Ar endcol
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
.Nm Colrm
elimina las columnas seleccionadas de un fichero. La entrada se obtiene de la entrada estándar. La salida se manda a la salida estándar.
.Pp
Si se llama con un único parámetro, las columnas de cada línea se eliminarán comenzando en la columna especificada.
Si se llama con dos parámetros, se eliminarán las columnas entre las especificadas, incluídas éstas.
.Pp
La numeración de las columnas empieza con la columna 1.
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr awk 1 ,
.Xr column 1 ,
.Xr expand 1 ,
.Xr paste 1
.Sh HISTORIA
El comando
.Nm
aparece por primera vez en   
.Bx 3.0 .
