.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)column.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/6/93
.\"
.\" Translated 22 Jul 1998 by Roberto Rodríguez Fernández (rrf@apdo.com)
.\"
.Dd 6 Junio 1993
.Os
.Dt COLUMN 1
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm column
.Nd encolumna listas
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Nm column
.Op Fl tx
.Op Fl c Ar columns
.Op Fl s Ar sep
.Op Ar
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
La utilidad
.Nm column
formatea su entrada en múltiples columnas.
Las filas se rellenan antes que las columnas.
La entrada se toma de un
.Ar fichero
de operandos, o, por defecto, de la entrada estándar.
Las líneas vacías se ignoran.
.Pp
Las opciones son las siguientes:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
La salida se formatea para un dispositivo de visualización de un ancho de
.Ar columns
columnas.
.It Fl s
Especifica un conjunto de caracteres que se usarán para delimitar las
columnas para la opción
.Fl t.
.It Fl t
Determina el número de columnas que contiene la entrada y crea una tabla.
Las columnas se delimitan, por defecto, con espacios en blanco, o con los
caracteres que se suministren usando la opción
.Fl s.
De uso adecuado para dispositivos de visualización de buena calidad.
.It Fl x
Rellena las columnas antes que las filas.
.El
.Pp
.Nm Column
termina con un código 0 si se ha ejecutado normalmente, >0 si ha ocurrido
algún error.
.Sh ENTORNO
.Bl -tag -width COLUMNS
.It Ev COLUMNS
La variable de entorno
.Ev COLUMNS
se usa para determinar el tamaño de la
pantalla si no existe otra información disponible.
.El
.Sh EJEMPLOS
.Dl (printf \&"PERM LINKS OWNER SIZE MONTH DAY HH:MM/YEAR NAME\en\&"\ \&;\ \&\e
.Dl ls -l \&| sed 1d) \&| column -t
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr colrm 1 ,
.Xr ls 1 ,
.Xr paste 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh HISTORIA
El comando 
.Nm
aparece por primera vez en la 
.Bx 4.3 Reno .
