.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:53:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish on Sun Jan 3 1999 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH INTRO 1 "24 de Julio de 1993" "Linux" "Manual de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
intro \- Introducción a órdenes de usuario
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Este capítulo describe órdenes de usuario.
.SH AUTORES
Busque en la cabecera de cada página del Manual el autor o autores y
las condiciones sobre los derechos de copia. ¡Observe que éstos
pueden ser diferentes de página en página!
