.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)look.1	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/14/93
.\"
.\" Translated 19 Sep 1998 by Juan José López Mellado (laveneno@hotmail.com) 
.\"
.Dd 14 Junio 1993
.Dt LOOK 1
.Os
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm look
.Nd mostrar las líneas que comienzan por una cadena dada
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Nm look
.Op Fl dfa
.Op Fl t Ar termchar
.Ar string
.Op Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
La utilidad 
.Nm look
muestra las líneas del fichero
.Ar file
que contienen
.Ar string
como prefijo.
Dado que
.Nm look
realiza una búsqueda binaria, las líneas en
.Ar file
deben estar ordenadas.
.Pp
Si no se especifica
.Ar file ,
se usa el fichero
.Pa /usr/dict/words ,
solo se comparan caracteres alfabéticos y las mayúsculas y minúsculas
se toman por igual.
.Pp
Opciones:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d
Diccionario de conjunto de caracteres y orden, por ejemplo, sólo comparar
caracteres alfanuméricos.
.It Fl f
Tomar mayúsculas y minúsculas como iguales en caracteres alfabéticos.
.It Fl a
Usar el diccionario alternativo
.Pa /usr/dict/web2
.It Fl t
Especificar un carácter de terminación de cadena, por ejemplo, sólo
comparar los caracteres de
.Ar string
hasta la primera ocurrencia de
.Ar termchar .
.El
.Pp
La utilidad
.Nm look
termina con valor 0 si una o más líneas fueron encontradas y mostradas, 1
si no se encontró ninguna y >1 si ocurrió un error.
.Sh FICHEROS
.Bl -tag -width /usr/dict/words -compact
.It Pa /usr/dict/words
el diccionario
.It Pa /usr/dict/web2
el diccionario alternativo
.El
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr grep 1 ,
.Xr sort 1
.Sh COMPATIBILIDAD
La página de manual original indicaba que los tabuladores y espacios
participaban en la comparación cuando se usaba la opción
.Fl d .
Esto era incorrecto y la página de manual actual se corresponde con la
implentación histórica.
.Sh HISTORIA
.Nm Look
apareció en Unix Version 7 de AT&T
