.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1990 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)script.1	6.5 (Berkeley) 7/27/91
.\"
.\"
.\" Translated on 30 Aug 1998 by Juan José López Mellado
.\"              (laveneno@hotmail.com)
.\"
.Dd 27 Julio, 1991
.Dt SCRIPT 1
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm script
.Nd hace una transcripción de una sesión de terminal
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Nm script
.Op Fl a
.Op Ar file
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
.Nm Script
hace una transcripción de cualquier cosa que sea impresa en su terminal.
Es útil para estudiantes que necesitan tener una copia de una sesión
interactiva como una prueba de alguna asignatura, ya que el ficheros de
transcripción puede mandarse a la impresora más tarde con
.Xr lpr 1 .
.Pp
Si aparece el argumento
.Ar file,
.Nm
guarda todo el diálogo en
.Ar file .
Si no se especifica ningún nombre de fichero, la transcripción es
guardada en el fichero
.Pa typescript  .
.Pp
Opción:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl a
Añade la salida al final de
.Ar file
o
.Pa typescript ,
manteniendo los contenidos anteriores.
.El
.Pp
script finaliza cuando el shell hijo termina (un
.Em control-D
para salir del Bourne shell
.Pf ( Xr sh 1 ) ,
y
.Em exit , 
.Em logout
o
.Em control-d
(si
.Em ignoreeof
no está activado) para el
C-shell,
.Xr csh 1 ) .
.Pp
Algunos comandos interactivos, como
.Xr vi 1 ,
crean basura en el fichero de transcripción.
.Nm Script
funciona mejor con comandos que no manipulan la pantalla, los resultados
deben ser interpretados como una copia directa del terminal.
.Sh ENTORNO
Las siguientes variables de entorno son usadas por
.Nm script :
.Bl -tag -width SHELL
.It Ev SHELL
Si la variable
.Ev SHELL
existe, el shell ejecutado por
.Nm script
será ese shell. Si
.Ev SHELL
no está definida, se asume el Bourne shell. (Muchos shells activan esta
variable automáticamente).
.El
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr csh 1
(para el mecanismo de
.Em history
).
.Sh HISTORIA
El comando
.Nm script
apareció en
.Bx 3.0 .
.Sh FALLOS
.Nm Script
pone
.Sy todo
en el fichero de salida, incluyendo saltos de línea y caracteres de
borrado.
Esto no es lo que un usuario novato espera.
