.\" Copyright (c) 1990 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This manual is derived from one contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Michael Rendell of Memorial University of Newfoundland.
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)tsort.1	6.3 (Berkeley) 4/23/91
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish on Wed Aug 26 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo@cica.es>
.\"
.Dd 23 Abril 1991
.Dt TSORT 1
.Os
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm tsort
.Nd clasificación topológica de un grafo dirigido
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Nm tsort
.Op Ar fichero
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
.Nm Tsort
toma una lista de pares de nombres de nodos que representan arcos
dirigidos en un grafo e imprime los nodos en orden topológico en la
salida estándar. La entrada se toma del fichero dado, 
.Ar fichero ,
o de la entrada estándar si no se da ningún fichero.
.Pp
Los nombres de nodos en la entrada se separan por espacios en blanco y
debe haber un número par de nodos.
.Pp
La presencia de un nodo en un grafo puede representarse por un arco
desde el nodo a sí mismo.
Esto es útil cuando un nodo no está conectado a ningún otro.
.Pp
Si el grafo contiene un ciclo (y por lo tanto no puede clasificarse
correctamente), uno de los arcos del ciclo no es tenido en cuenta y la
clasificación continúa.
Se informa de los ciclos en la salida estándar de errores.
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr ar 1
.Sh HISTORIA
Una orden
.Nm
apareció en
.At v7 .
Este programa
.Nm tsort
y la página del Manual se derivan de las fuentes contribuidas a
Berkeley por Michael Rendell de la universidad Memorial University of
Newfoundland.
