.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/sys/socket.h, which does not have
.\" any authorship information in it.  It is probably available under the GPL.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\"
.\" Other portions are from the 6.9 (Berkeley) 3/10/91 man page:
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1983 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\" Translated 15 Dec 1995 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 30 Junio 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation revised 19 April 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\" $Id: bind.2,v 1.1 2004/07/14 11:21:40 pepin.jimenez Exp $
.\" Translation revised 4 April 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\" Translation revised Sat Jun 26 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH BIND 2 "3 octubre 1998" "Linux 2.2" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
bind \- enlaza un nombre a un conector (socket)
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int bind(int " sockfd ", struct sockaddr *" my_addr ", socklen_t " addrlen );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B bind
da al conector
.I sockfd
la dirección local
.IR my_addr .
.I my_addr
tiene una longitud de
.I addrlen
bytes.  Tradicionalmente, esto se conoce como \(lqasignar un nombre a un
conector.\(rq
Cuando un conector se crea con
.BR socket (2),
existe en un espacio de nombres (familia de direcciones) pero carece 
de nombre.
.PP
Normalmente, es necesario asignar una dirección local usando
.B bind
a un conector
.B SOCK_STREAM
antes de que éste pueda recibir conexiones (vea
.BR accept (2)).

Las reglas usadas en el enlace de nombres varían entre familias de
direcciones. Consulte las entradas de manual de la Sección 7 para obtener
una información más detallada. Para
.B AF_INET
vea
.BR ip (7),
para
.B AF_UNIX
vea
.BR unix (7),
para
.B AF_APPLETALK
vea
.BR ddp (7),
para
.B AF_PACKET
vea
.BR packet (7),
para
.B AF_X25
vea
.BR x25 (7)
y para
.B AF_NETLINK
vea
.BR netlink (7).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Se devuelve 0 en caso de éxito. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1 y a
.I errno
se le asigna un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I sockfd
no es un descriptor válido.
.TP
.B EINVAL
El conector ya está enlazado a una dirección. Esto puede cambiar en el  
futuro: véase
.I linux/unix/sock.c
para más detalles.
.TP
.B EACCES
La dirección está protegida y el usuario no es el superusuario.
.PP
Los siguientes errores son específicos a los conectores del dominio
UNIX
.RB ( AF_UNIX ):
.TP
.B EINVAL
La dirección
.I addr_len
es incorrecta o el conector no pertenecia a la familia
.B AF_UNIX.
.TP
.B EROFS
El nodo-i del conector reside
en un sistema de ficheros de `sólo lectura'.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I my_addr
señala fuera del espacio de direcciones accesible por el usuario.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I my_addr
es demasiado larga.
.TP
.B ENOENT
El fichero no existe.    
.TP
.B ENOMEM
No hay suficiente memoria disponible en el núcleo.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Un componente del camino no es un directorio.
.TP
.B EACCES
El permiso de búsqueda ha sido denegado en uno de los componentes
del camino.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Se han encontrado demasiados enlaces simbólicos al resolver
.IR my_addr .
.SH FALLOS
No están descritas las opciones de proxy transparente.
.SH CONFORME A
SVr4, 4.4BSD (la función
.B bind
apareció por primera vez en BSD 4.2). SVr4 documenta condiciones generales
de error adicionales:
.BR EADDRNOTAVAIL ,
.B EADDRINUSE
y
.BR ENOSR ,
y condiciones de error específicas del dominio UNIX adicionales:
.B EIO 
y
.BR EISDIR .
.SH NOTA
El tercer argumento de
.B bind
es en realidad un entero (y esto es lo que tienen BSD 4.*, libc4 y libc5).
Cierta confusión en POSIX dio como resultado el actual socklen_t. Véase también
.BR accept (2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR accept (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR ip (7),
.BR socket (7)
