.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 1993-07-21, Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1994-08-21, Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Fixed typoes.
.\" Modified 1997-01-31, Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2002-09-28, aeb
.\" Translation fixed on Fri Apr 24 10:37:35 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\"         Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised on Sat Jan  8 2000 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH DUP 2 "1 julio 1996" "Linux 1.1.46" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
dup, dup2 \- duplica un descriptor de fichero
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int dup(int " oldfd );
.BI "int dup2(int " oldfd ", int " newfd );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.BR dup " y " dup2
crean una copia del descriptor de fichero
.IR oldfd .

Después de una llamada a \fBdup\fR o \fBdup2\fR con éxito,
los descriptores antiguo y nuevo pueden usarse indiferentemente. Comparten
candados (locks), indicadores de posición de fichero y banderas (flags);
por ejemplo, si la posición del fichero se modifica usando
.B lseek
en uno de los descriptores, la posición en el otro también cambia.     

Sin embargo los descriptores no comparten la bandera close-on-exec,
(cerrar-al-ejecutar).

.B dup
usa el descriptor libre con menor numeración posible como nuevo
descriptor.

.B dup2
.RI "hace que " newfd " sea la copia de " oldfd ", cerrando primero " newfd
si es necesario.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.BR dup " y " dup2
devuelven el valor del nuevo descriptor, ó \-1 si ocurre algún error, en 
cuyo caso 
.I errno
toma un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I oldfd
no es un descriptor de fichero abierto, o
.I newfd
está fuera del rango permitido para descriptores de ficheros.
.TP
.B EMFILE
El proceso ya tiene el máximo número de descriptores de fichero
abiertos y se ha intentado abrir uno nuevo. 
.SH ADVERTENCIA 
El error devuelto por
.B dup2
es diferente del devuelto por
.BR fcntl( "..., " F_DUPFD ",..." )
cuando
.I newfd
está fuera de rango. En algunos sistemas
.B dup2
a veces devuelve
.B EINVAL
como
.BR F_DUPFD .
.SH FALLOS
Si
.I newfd
estaba abierto, cualquier error que pudiera haber aparecido
en el momento de llamar a
.IR close ()
se pierde. Un programador cauteloso no usará
.B dup2
sin cerrar
.I newfd
primero.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3. SVr4 documenta las condiciones de
error adicionales EINTR y ENOLINK. POSIX.1 añade EINTR.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR close (2)
