.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Modified 2002-04-15 by Roger Luethi <rl@hellgate.ch> and aeb
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated 8 Jan 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 1 Jul 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation revised on Wed Apr 29 18:30:20 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Revisado por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 11-noviembre-2004
.\"
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 2 "15 Abril 2002" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getdtablesize \- obtiene el tamaño de la tabla de descriptores
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getdtablesize(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B getdtablesize
devuelve el número máximo de ficheros que un proceso puede tener abiertos,
uno más que el valor más grande posible para un descriptor de fichero.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
El límite actual de número de ficheros abiertos por proceso.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
.B getdtablesize
está implementada como una función de la biblioteca libc. La versión de glibc
hace una llamada a
.BR getrlimit (2)
y devuelve el valor límite
.B RLIMIT_NOFILE
actual, o
.B OPEN_MAX
cuando falla.
Las versiones de libc4 y libc5 devuelven
.B OPEN_MAX
(fijado a 256 desde Linux 0.98.4).
.SH CONFORME A
SVr4, 4.4BSD (la función
.B getdtablesize
apareció por primera vez en BSD 4.2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR open (2)
