.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 5-julio-2004
.\"
.TH GETTID 2 "1 febrero 2003" "Linux 2.4.20" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
gettid \- obtiene el identificador de hilo
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall0(pid_t,gettid)
.sp
.B pid_t gettid(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBgettid\fP devuelve el identificador de hilo del proceso actual. Éste es igual 
al identificador de proceso (dado por
.BR getpid (2)),
salvo cuando el proceso forma parte de un grupo de hilos (creado especificando
la opción CLONE_THREAD en la llamada al sistema
.BR clone (2)
). Todos los procesos en el mismo grupo de hilos
tienen el mismo identificador de proceso, pero cada uno tiene un único 
identificador de hilo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
\fBgettid\fP es específica de Linux y no debería ser utilizada en
programas que se pretenden que sean portables.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getpid (2),
.BR clone (2),
.BR fork (2)

