.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002, Michael Kerrisk
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 31 Jan 2002, Michael Kerrisk <mtk16@ext.canterbury.ac.nz>
.\"	Added description of mmap2
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 5-julio-2004
.\"
.TH MMAP2 2 "31 enero 2002" "Linux 2.3.31" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
mmap2 \- ubica ficheros o dispositivos en memoria
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.br
.B #include <syscall.h>
.sp
.BI "_syscall6(void *, " start ", size_t, " length ", int, " prot ,
.BI "int, " flags ", int, " fd ", off_t, " pgoffset );
.sp
.BI "void * mmap2(void *" start ", size_t " length ", int " prot ,
.BI "int " flags ", int " fd ", off_t " pgoffset );
.sp
.B #endif
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B mmap2
opera exactamente de la misma manera que
.BR mmap (2),
salvo que el último argumento especifica el desplazamiento dentro del
fichero en unidades del tamaño de página del sistema (en lugar de bytes).
Ésto permite a las aplicaciones que usan un off_t de 32-bit ubicar
ficheros más grandes (típicamente hasta 2^44 bytes).
.SH OBSERVACIONES
La función
.B mmap2
está disponible desde la versión 2.3.31 de Linux.
Es específica de Linux, y debería ser evitada en aplicaciones portables.
Véase también la función
.I mmap64()
que es parte del LFS (Large File Summit).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getpagesize (2),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR mremap (2),
.BR msync (2),
.BR shm_open (2)
