.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt <drew@cs.colorado.edu>, March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:51:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Nov  4 21:02:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 2001-06-04 by aeb
.\" Translated into Spanish Sat Jan 17 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Revisado por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 17-septiembre-2004
.\"
.TH NICE 2 "4 junio 2001" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
nice \- cambia la prioridad de un proceso
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int nice(int " inc );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B nice
añade
.I inc
al valor nice del proceso invocador
(Un valor de nice mayor significa una prioridad más baja.)
Solamente el super\%usuario puede especificar un incremento negativo, o lo que 
es lo mismo, un incremento de la prioridad.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1 y se
pone un valor apropiado en \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
Un usuario normal intenta aumentar la prioridad, suministrando a la función un 
.IR inc 
negativo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID EXT, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3. Sin embargo, el valor devuelto por Linux y glibc
(versiones anteriores a glibc 2.2.4) no es estándar, véase abajo.
SVr4 documenta un código de error
adicional EINVAL.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Observe que según la documentación, en SUSv2 la rutina
devuelve el nuevo valor de nice, mientras que las rutinas
de Linux y (g)libc (anteriores a glibc 2.2.4) devuelven 0 en caso de éxito.
El nuevo valor de nice puede obtenerse usando
.BR getpriority (2).
Observe que una implementación en la cual
.B nice
devuelve el nuevo valor de nice puede devolver lícitamente un valor de \-1.
Para detectar de manera fiable un error, asigne a
.I errno
el valor 0 antes de llamar, y compruebe su valor cuando
.B nice
devuelva \-1.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR nice (1),
.BR getpriority (2),
.BR setpriority (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR renice (8)
