.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.2 2004/08/27 19:10:51 pepin.jimenez Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Jan 28 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga Garc칤a
.\" <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised on Sat Jun 26 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 "28 enero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
shutdown \- cierra parte de una conexi칩n bidireccional
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " s ", int " como );
.SH DESCRIPCI칍N
La llamada a
.B shutdown
causa que se cierre completamente o en parte una conexi칩n
bidireccional en el conector asociado con \fIs\fP.
Si
.I como
es
.BR SHUT_RD ,
no se permitir치n m치s recepciones. Si
.I como
es
.BR SHUT_WR 
no se permitir치n m치s env칤os. Si
.I como
es
.BR SHUT_RDWR ,
no se permitir치n m치s env칤os ni recepciones.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de 칠xito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone un valor apropiado en \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I s
no es un desccriptor v치lido.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.I s
es un fichero, no un conector.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
El conector especificado no est치 conectado.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Las constantes SHUT_RD, SHUT_WR, SHUT_RDWR toman los valores 0, 1, 2,
respectivamente, y est烱 definidas en
.I <sys/socket.h>
desde glibc-2.1.91.
.SH "CONFORME A"
4.4BSD (la funci칩n
.B shutdown
apareci칩 por primera vez en 4.2BSD).
.SH "V칄ASE TAMBI칄N"
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2)
