.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)syscall.2	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/16/93
.\"
.\"
.\" 2002-03-20  Christoph Hellwig <hch@infradead.org>
.\"	- adopted for Linux
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 5-julio-2004
.\"
.Dd 16 junio 1993
.Dt SYSCALL 2
.Os BSD 4
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm syscall
.Nd llamada al sistema indirecta
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Fd #include <sys/syscall.h>
.Fd #include <unistd.h>
.Ft int
.Fn syscall "int number" "..."
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
.Fn Syscall
lleva a cabo la llamada al sistema cuya interfaz con el lenguaje ensamblador
está definida por
.Fa number
con los argumentos especificados.
Las constantes simbólicas para llamadas al sistema pueden encontrarse en
el fichero de cabecera
.Ao Pa sys/syscall.h Ac .
.Sh VALOR DEVUELTO
El valor devuelto está definido por la llamada al sistema que se invoque.
En general, un valor 0 indica éxito.
Un valor -1 indica que ocurrió un error,
almacenándose un código de error en la variable
.Va errno .
.Sh FALLOS
No es posible simular llamadas al sistema que devuelven múltiples valores como
.Xr pipe 2 .
.Sh HISTORIA
La llamada a función
.Fn syscall
apareción en
.Bx 4.0 .
.\" dummy comment without newline
