.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Dirk Eddelbuettel (Dirk.Eddelbuettel@qed.econ.queensu.ca)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 675 Mass Ave, Cambridge, MA 02139,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Translated Mon Apr 21 11:20:12 1998 by 
.\"        Cesar D. Lobejon (cesar@alien.mec.es)            
.TH ACCT 5 "31 Octubre 1995" "Debian/GNU Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
acct \- fichero de contabilidad de ejecución
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/acct.h>
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
El núcleo mantiene una estructura de información contable para todos los
procesos. Si un proceso finaliza, y la contabilidad está activada, el núcleo
llama a la función
.BR acct (2)
para preparar, y luego añadir, un registro para este proceso
al fichero contable. La estructura contable
.B "struct acct"
se describe en el fichero
.IR /usr/src/linux/include/acct.h .
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR acct (2),
.BR sa (1).
