.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" 
.\" Translated Sat Jul  6 13:50:32 1996 by Diego Novillo (diego@cs.ualberta.ca)
.\" Translation revised June 5 1998
.\"
.TH GROUP 5 "29 Diciembre 1992" "Linux" "Manual del Programador Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
group \- Fichero de grupos de usuarios
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fB/etc/group\fP es un fichero ASCII el cuál define los grupos a los cuáles
pertenecen los usuarios del sistema. Hay una entrada por línea, y cada
línea tiene el siguiente formato:
.sp
.RS
nombre_grupo:contraseña:GID:lista_usuarios
.RE
.sp
Las descripciones de los campos son:
.IP nombre_grupo
el nombre del grupo.
.IP contraseña
la contraseña del grupo (encriptada). Si este campo está vacío, no se
utiliza ninguna contraseña.
.IP GID
el número de ID del grupo.
.IP lista_usuarios
los nombres de usuario de todos los miembros del grupo, separados por
comas.
.SH FICHEROS
/etc/group
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR login "(1), " newgrp "(1), " passwd (5)
