.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:06:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Jan 14 00:34:09 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Translated Sat Jul  6 15:25:21 1996 by Diego Novillo (diego@cs.ualberta.ca)
.\" Translation revised May 14 1998 by Javi Polo (javipolo@CyberJunkie.com)
.\" 
.TH INTRO 5 "24 Julio 1993" "Linux" "Manual del Programador Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
intro \- Introducción a formatos de ficheros
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Este capítulo describe varios formatos de ficheros, protocolos, y las
estructuras de datos usadas por los distintos programas.
.SH AUTORES
Mire la cabecera de cada página del manual para saber el/los autor/es y las
condiciones de derechos de uso. ¡Tenga en cuenta que estas condiciones pueden 
variar de página en página!
