.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:17:50 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Thu Oct 19 21:25:21 MET 1995 by Martin Schulze
.\" <joey@infodrom.north.de> 
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 17:47:19 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond
.\" <esr@thyrsus.com>xk
.\" Translated Tue Jul 23 13:03:02 1996 by Diego Novillo
.\" (diego@cs.ualberta.ca) 
.\"
.\" Translation revised on Wed May 13 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH TTYTYPE 5 "24 Julio 1993" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ttytype \- asociación de dispositivos de terminal a tipos
predeterminados de terminal
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
El fichero de texto
.I /etc/ttytype
asocia los nombres de tipo de terminal según termcap/terminfo a las
líneas de tty. Cada línea consiste en un tipo de terminal, espacio en
blanco, y un nombre de tty (un nombre de dispositivo sin el prefijo
.IR /dev/ ")."

Esta asociación es utilizada por el programa 
.BR tset (1)
para asignar a la variable de entorno TERM el nombre de terminal
correcto para la tty actual del usuario.

Esta facilidad fue diseñada para un entorno tradicional de tiempo
compartido con terminales tontas alfanuméricas conectadas directamente
a una minicomputadora Unix. Se usa ya muy poco en estaciones de
trabajo modernas o en ordenadores personales con Unix.
.SH EJEMPLO
Un típico fichero
.I /etc/ttytype
contiene lo siguiente:
.RS
.sp
con80x25 tty1
.br
vt320 ttys0
.sp
.RE
.SH FICHEROS
.TP
.I /etc/ttytype
el fichero de definiciones de ttys.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getty "(1), " terminfo "(5), " termcap "(5), " tset "(1)." 
