.\" Copyright (c) 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)daemon.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/9/93
.\" Added mentioning of glibc weirdness wrt unistd.h. 5/11/98, Al Viro
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 10-julio-2004
.\"
.TH DAEMON 3 "9 junio 1993" "BSD MANPAGE" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
daemon \- ejecución en segundo plano
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int daemon(int " nochdir ", int " noclose );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.BR daemon ()
es utilizada por programas que desean desvincularse de la terminal
de control y correr en segundo plano como demonios de sistema.
.PP
A menos que el argumento
.I nochdir
sea distinto de cero,
.BR daemon ()
cambia el directorio de trabajo actual al directorio raiz ("/").
.PP
A menos que el argumento
.I noclose
sea distinto de cero,
.BR daemon ()
redirigirá la entrada estándar, salida estándar y salida estándar de error
a \fI/dev/null\fP.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
(Esta función se bifurca, y si la llamada a
.I fork()
tiene éxito, el padre hace
.IR _exit (0),
por lo que los errores posteriores son vistos sólo por el hijo.)
En caso de éxito se devolverá cero.
Si ocurre un error,
.BR daemon ()
devuelve \-1 y asigna a la variable global
.I errno
cualquiera de los códigos de error especificados para las funciones
de biblioteca
.BR fork (2)
y
.BR setsid (2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fork (2),
.BR setsid (2)
.SH OBSERVACIONES
La implementación de glibc puede devolver también \-1 cuando
.I /dev/null
existe pero no es un dispositivo de caracteres con los números
mayor y menor esperados. En este caso
.I errno
no necesita ser modificado.
.SH HISTORIA
La función
.BR daemon ()
apareció por primera vez en BSD4.4.
