.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 10-julio-2004
.\"
.TH DIRFD 3 "5 enero 2002" "Linux 2.5" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
dirfd \- obtiene el descriptor de fichero de un flujo de directorio
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "int dirfd(DIR *" dir );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B dirfd()
devuelve el descriptor de fichero asociado con el flujo de directorio
.IR dir .
.SH ERRORES
En caso de error devuelve \-1.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
El prototipo para
.B dirfd
está solamente disponible si
.B _BSD_SOURCE
o
.B _SVID_SOURCE
están definidos (bien explícitamente, o implícitamente, no definiendo
_POSIX_SOURCE o compilando con la opción -ansi).
.SH "CONFORME A"
Ésta es una extensión de BSD, presente en 4.3BSD-Reno, no en 4.2BSD.
Presente también en libc5 (desde 5.1.2) y en glibc2.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR open (2),
.BR closedir (3),
.BR opendir (3),
.BR readdir (3),
.BR rewinddir (3),
.BR scandir (3),
.BR seekdir (3),
.BR telldir (3)
