.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Text fragments inspired by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 10-julio-2004
.\"
.TH DPRINTF 3 "18 diciembre 2001" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
dprintf, vdprintf \- imprimen en un descriptor de fichero
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int dprintf(int " fd ", const char *" format ", ...);"
.sp
.BI "int vdprintf(int " fd ", const char *" format ", va_list " ap );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Las funciones
.B dprintf
y
.B vdprintf
(localizadas en la biblioteca glibc2) son análogas a
.B fprintf
y
.BR vfprintf ,
salvo que su salida va a un descriptor de fichero
.I fd
en lugar de a un flujo dado.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Estas funciones son extensiones de GNU, no se encuentran ni en C ni en POSIX.
Obviamente, los nombre fueron mal elegidos.
Muchos sistemas (como MacOS) tienen funciones incompatibles llamadas
.IR dprintf ,
habitualmente alguna versión de depuración de
.IR printf ,
tal vez con un prototipo como

.BI "void dprintf (int level, const char *" format ", ...);"

donde el primer parámetro es un nivel de depuración (y la salida va a
.IR stderr ).
Además, 
.B dprintf
(o
.BR DPRINTF )
es también un popular nombre de macro para una versión de depuración de printf.
Así que, probablemente, sea mejor evitar esta función en programas
que se pretenden que sean portables.

Un nombre mejor hubiera sido
.IR fdprintf .
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR printf (3)

