.\"  Copyright 2001 Walter Harms (walter.harms@informatik.uni-oldenburg.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" aeb: some corrections
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 10-julio-2004
.\"
.TH DYSIZE 3 "12 noviembre 2001" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
dysize \- obtiene el número de días para un año dado
.SH SINOPSIS
.sp
.BR "#define _BSD_SOURCE" "   /* o: #define _SVID_SOURCE */
.br
.BR "#include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int dysize(int " year );
.sp
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función devuelve 365 para un año normal y 366 para un año bisiesto.
El cálculo para un año bisiesto se basa en:
.sp
(year) %4 == 0 && ((year) %100 != 0 || (year) %400 == 0)
.sp
La fórmula está definida en la macro
.I __isleap(year)
también localizada en
.IR <time.h> .
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta función aparece en SunOS 4.x.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Esta es una función solamente de compatibilidad. No la use en programas nuevos.
La versión de SCO de esta función padece el problema del año 2000.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR strftime (3),
.BR time (3)
