.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fflush.3	5.4 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\"
.\" Modified 2000-07-22 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Modified 2001-10-16 by John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\" Translated into Spanish, Mon Jan 12 1998, Gerardo Aburruzaga García
. \" <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH FFLUSH 3  "29 noviembre 1993" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
fflush \- vuelca los datos de un flujo a disco
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fflush(FILE *" flujo );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B fflush
fuerza la escritura de todos los datos tamponados del espacio de usuario para el flujo de
salida dado, o actualiza el
.I flujo
a través de la función de escritura subyacente al flujo. El estado de
apertura del flujo no se ve afectado.
.PP
Si el argumento
.I flujo
es
.BR NULL ,
.B fflush
hace un volcado a disco de 
.I todos
los flujos de salida que estén abiertos.
.PP
Para la versión no-bloqueante, véase
.BR unlocked_stdio (3).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Se devuelve cero en caso de éxito. En otro caso, se devuelve
.B EOF
y se da un valor apropiado a la variable global
.I errno
para indicar el error.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
El argumento
.I flujo
no es un flujo abierto, o no está abierto para escritura.
.PP
La función
.B fflush
puede fallar también, y poner un valor en
.I errno
, para cualquiera de los errores especificados para la rutina
.BR write (2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fsync (2),
.BR sync (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fclose (3),
.BR fopen (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
.BR unlocked_stdio (3)
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Observe que
.B fflush
sólo vacía los buffers del espacio de usuario suministrados por
la biblioteca C. Para asegurar que los datos son almacenados físicamente
en disco los buffers del núcleo deben ser vaciados también, p.e. con
.BR sync (2)
o
.BR fsync (2).
.SH CONFORME A
La función
.B fflush
es conforme con ANSI X3.159-1989 (``C ANSI'').
