.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 11-julio-2004
.\"
.TH FPURGE 3  "15 diciembre 2001" "" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
fpurge, __fpurge \- vacía un flujo
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
/* no soportada */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fpurge(FILE *" stream );
.sp
/* soportada */
.B #include <stdio.h>
.br
.B #include <stdio_ext.h>
.sp
.BI "void  __fpurge(FILE *" stream );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B fpurge()
vacía los buffers del flujo dado.
Para flujos de salida esta función descarta toda salida pendiente.
Para flujos de entrada esta función descarta toda entrada leída del objeto
subyacente pero que no ha sido obtenida todavía con
.BR getc (3);
ésto incluye cualquier texto devuelto a la entrada via \fIungetc\fP(). Véase también
.BR fflush (3).
.LP
La función
.B __fpurge()
hace lo mismo, pero sin devolver un valor.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si se completa con éxito
.B fpurge()
devuelve 0.
En caso de error, se devuelve \-1 y se modifica
.I errno
con el valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I stream
no es un flujo abierto.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Estas funciones no son estándares ni portables.
La función
.IR fpurge ()
fue introducida en BSD 4.4 y no está disponible bajo Linux.
La función
.IR __fpurge ()
fue introducida en Solaris, y está presente en glibc 2.1.95 y posteriores.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Habitualmente es un fallo querer descartar buffers de entrada.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fclean (3),
.BR fflush (3),
.BR setbuf (3),
.BR stdio_ext (3)
