.\" Copyright 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 11-julio-2004
.\"
.TH FSEEKO 3  "5 noviembre 2001" "" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
fseeko, ftello \- modifica o informa de la posición del fichero
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseeko(FILE *" stream ", off_t " offset ", int " whence );
.sp
.BI "off_t ftello(FILE *" stream );
.BI 
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Las funciones \fBfseeko()\fP y \fBftello()\fP son idénticas a
\fBfseek()\fP y \fBftell()\fP (véase
.BR fseek (3)),
respectivamente, salvo que el argumento \fIoffset\fP de \fBfseeko()\fP
y el valor devuelto por \fBftello()\fP son de tipo \fBoff_t\fP
en lugar de \fBlong\fP.
.LP
En muchas arquitecturas tanto \fBoff_t\fP como \fBlong\fP son tipos de 32 bits,
aunque si se compila con
.RS
.nf
#define _FILE_OFFSET_BITS 64
.fi
.RE
\fBoff_t\fP se convertirá en un tipo de 64 bits.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Estas funciones se encuentran en sistemas tipo SysV.
No están presentes en libc4, libc5 ni glibc 2.0, aunque sí están disponibles
desde la versión 2.1 de glibc.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Las funciones
.B fseeko
y
.B ftello
siguen el estándar SUSv2.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fseek (3)
