.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991, 1993
.\"	The Regents of the University of California.  All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getloadavg.3	8.1 (Berkeley) 6/4/93
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 25-julio-2004
.\"
.Dd 4 junio 1993
.Dt GETLOADAVG 3
.Os BSD 4.3
.Sh NOMBRE
.Nm getloadavg
.Nd obtiene los promedios de carga del sistema
.Sh SINOPSIS
.Fd #include <stdlib.h>
.Ft int
.Fn getloadavg "double loadavg[]" "int nelem"
.Sh DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.Fn getloadavg
devuelve el número de procesos promedio en la cola de ejecución
del sistema para varios períodos de tiempo.
Se obtienen hasta un máximo de
.Fa nelem
muestras y se asignan a elementos sucesivos de
.Fa loadavg Ns Bq .
El sistema impone un máximo de 3 muestras, representando los promedios
en los últimos 1, 5, y 15 minutos, respectivamente.
.Sh OBSERVACIONES
Si el promedio de carga no puede obtenerse, se devuelve \-1; en otro caso,
se devuelve el número de muestras que se obtuvieron realmente.
.Sh VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.Xr uptime 1 ,
.Xr proc 5
.Sh HISTORIA
La función
.Fn getloadavg
apareción en
.Bx 4.3 Reno .
.\" mdoc seems to have a bug - there must be no newline here
