.\" Copyright 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Juan Piernas <piernas en ditec.um.es> el 13-enero-2005
.\"
.TH LROUND 3  "31 mayo 2001" "" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
lround, lroundf, lroundl, llround, llroundf, llroundl \- redondean al
entero más cercano, en dirección opuesta al cero
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "long int lround(double " x );
.br
.BI "long int lroundf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long int lroundl(long double " x );
.sp
.BI "long long int llround(double " x );
.br
.BI "long long int llroundf(float " x );
.br
.BI "long long int llroundl(long double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Estas funciones redondean su argumento al valor entero más cercano, en
dirección opuesta al cero, sin tener en cuenta la dirección actual del
redondeo.
Si \fIx\fP es infinito o NaN, o si el valor redondeado se encuentra
fuera del rango del tipo devuelvo, el resultado queda indeterminado.
Se puede producir un error de dominio si la magnitud de \fIx\fP es
demasiado grande.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
El entero al que se redondea.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EDOM
El tamaño de \fIx\fP es demasiado grande y
.I "(math_errhandling & MATH_ERRNO)"
es distinto de cero.
.SH "CONFORME A"
C99.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR ceil (3),
.BR floor (3),
.BR lrint (3),
.BR nearbyint (3),
.BR rint (3),
.BR round (3)
