.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Mon Apr 12 12:49:57 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:56:22 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Wed Feb 20 21:09:36 2002, Ian Redfern (redferni@logica.com)
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Mar  3 15:28:21 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Traducción revisada por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 29-marzo-2005
.\"
.TH MEMCHR 3  "20 febrero 2002" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
memchr, memrchr \- buscan en memoria un carácter
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "void *memchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.sp
.BI "void *memrchr(const void *" s ", int " c ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBmemchr()\fP rastrea los primeros \fIn\fP bytes del área
de memoria apuntada por \fIs\fP buscando el carácter \fIc\fP.  La
operación acaba al llegarse al primer byte que concuerde con \fIc\fP
(interpretado como un carácter sin signo).
.PP
La función \fBmemrchr()\fP es similar a la función \fBmemchr()\fP,
pero en lugar de buscar hacia delante desde el principio del área
de memoria apuntada por \fIs\fP, busca hacia atrás desde el final
de los \fIn\fP bytes que siguen a dicha dirección.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Las funciones \fBmemchr()\fP y \fBmemrchr()\fP devuelven un puntero al byte que concuerda, o
NULL si el carácter no está en el área de memoria especificada.
.SH "CONFORME A"
La función \fBmemchr()\fP es conforme con SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899 y POSIX.
La función \fBmemrchr()\fP es una extensión de GNU, disponible desde
glibc 2.1.91.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR index "(3), " rindex "(3), " strchr "(3), " strpbrk (3),
.BR strrchr "(3), " strsep "(3), " strspn "(3), " strstr (3)
