.\" Copyright 2001 John Levon <moz@compsoc.man.ac.uk>
.\" Based on mkstemp(3), Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\" and GNU libc documentation
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 9-agosto-2004
.\"
.TH MKDTEMP 3  "7 octubre 2001" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
mkdtemp \- crea un directorio temporal único
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "char *mkdtemp(char *" template );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBmkdtemp()\fP genera un directorio temporal de nombre único
a partir de \fItemplate\fP. Los últimos seis caracteres de \fItemplate\fP
deben ser XXXXXX y éstos serán reemplazados con una cadena que hará el nombre de
directorio único. El directorio se crea luego con los permisos
0700.
Puesto que puede ser modificado,
.I template
no debe ser una constante de cadena, sino que debería ser declarado como un array
de caracteres.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBmkdtemp()\fP devuelve un puntero a la cadena template
modificada en caso de éxito, y \fBNULL\fP en caso de fallo, en cuyo caso
.IR errno
se modifica con el valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EINVAL
Los últimos seis caracteres de \fItemplate\fP no son XXXXXX.
\fItemplate\fP no se modifica.

.TP
Véase también \fBmkdir(2)\fP para otros posibles valores para \fIerrno\fP.

.SH "CONFORME A"
Introducida en OpenBSD 2.2.
.\" Also in NetBSD 1.4.
Disponible desde glibc 2.1.91.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR mkstemp (3),
.BR mktemp (3),
.BR tmpnam (3),
.BR tempnam (3),
.BR tmpfile (3)
