.\" This file is derived from unlink.2, which has the following copyright:
.\"
.\" --snip--
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" --snip--
.\"
.\" Edited into remove.3 shape by:
.\" Graeme W. Wilford (G.Wilford@ee.surrey.ac.uk) on 13th July 1994
.\"
.\" Translated 5 Feb 1998 by
.\" 	Vicente Pastor Gómez <VPASTORG@santandersupernet.com , vicpastor@hotmail.com>
.\" Translation revised on Tue Apr 6 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\" Traducción revisada por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 10-febrero-2005
.\"
.TH REMOVE 3 "13 julio 1994" Linux "GNU"
.SH NOMBRE
remove \- borra un nombre y posiblemente el fichero a que se refiere
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int remove(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B remove
borra un nombre del sistema de ficheros. La función llama a
.I unlink
para ficheros y a
.I rmdir
para directorios.

Si el nombre borrado es el último enlace
a un fichero y este no está abierto por ningún proceso, el fichero es
borrado y el espacio que utilizaba queda disponible para ser reutilizado.

Si el nombre es el último enlace a un fichero, pero algún proceso aún lo
tiene abierto, el fichero sigue existiendo hasta que sea cerrado el último
descriptor de fichero referente a él.

Si el nombre se refiere a un enlace simbólico, se borra el enlace.

Si el nombre se refiere a un enchufe (socket), fifo, o dispositivo, se borra
el nombre, pero los procesos que tienen este objeto abierto pueden continuar
usándolo.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si hay éxito, se devuelve cero. Si ocurre un error, se devuelve \-1, y
.I errno
se actualiza apropiadamente.
.SH ERRORES
Los errores que pueden ocurrir son aquellos para
las llamadas
.BR unlink (2)
y
.BR rmdir (2).
.SH "CONFORME A"
ANSI C, SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH FALLOS
Algunos fallos desafortunados en el protocolo subyacente a NFS pueden causar
la desaparición inesperada de ficheros que aún estaban siendo usados.
.SH NOTA
Bajo libc4 y libc5,
.B remove
era un alias de unlink (y, por lo tanto, no eliminaba directorios).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR unlink (2),
.BR rename (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR rmdir (2),
.BR mknod (2),
.BR mkfifo (3),
.BR link (2),
.BR rm (1),
.BR unlink (8)

