.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 13-agosto-2004
.\"
.TH SETLOGMASK 3  "5 octubre 2001" "" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
setlogmask \- establece la máscara de prioridad de registro
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <syslog.h>
.sp
.BI "int setlogmask(int " mask );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Un proceso tiene una máscara de prioridad de registro que determina qué llamadas a
.BR syslog (3)
serán procesadas. Todas las demás llamadas serán ignoradas.
El registro se habilita para las prioridades que tienen el correspondiente
bit activo en
.IR mask .
La máscara inicial permite el registro para todas las prioridades.
.LP
La función
.B setlogmask()
establece esta máscara de registro (logmask) para el proceso actual,
y devuelve la máscara previa.
Si el argumento mask es 0, la máscara de registro actual no se modifica.
.LP
Las ocho prioridades son LOG_EMERG, LOG_ALERT, LOG_CRIT, LOG_ERR,
LOG_WARNING, LOG_NOTICE, LOG_INFO y LOG_DEBUG.
El bit correspondiente a la prioridad \fIp\fP está determinado por LOG_MASK(\fIp\fP).
Algunos sistemas suministran también una macro LOG_UPTO(\fIp\fP) para el enmascaramiento
de todas las prioridades de la lista de arriba hasta e incluyendo a \fIp\fP.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Esta función devuelve la máscara de prioridad de registro previa.
.SH ERRORES
Ninguno.
.\" .SH OBSERVACIONES
.\" The glibc logmask handling was broken in versions before glibc 2.1.1.
.SH "CONFORME A"
XPG4.
Observe que la descripción en POSIX 1003.1-2001 contiene errores.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR closelog (3),
.BR openlog (3),
.BR syslog (3)
