.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:00:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Jan 20 12:04:18 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified Tue Jan 23 20:23:07 2001 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Traducción por Urko Lusa <ulusa@lacueva.ddns.org> 19980313
.TH STRSEP 3  "12 de abril de 1993" "GNU" "Manual del programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
strsep \- extrae un elemento de una cadena
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strsep(char **" pcadena ", const char *" delim );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Si *\fIpcadena\fP es NULL, la función \fBstrsep()\fP devuelve NULL
y no hace nada más. En otro caso, esta función encuentra el primer elemento
en la cadena *\fIpcadena\fP, donde los elementos
están delimitados por símbolos de la cadena \fIdelim\fP.
Al final del elemento se pone un carácter `\\0'
(sobreescribiendo el delimitador)
y *\fIpcadena\fP se actualiza para apuntar después del elemento.
En el caso de que no se encuentre el delimitador, el elemento que se
devuelve es la cadena *\fIpcadena\fP completa, y a *\fIpcadena\fP se le asigna NULL.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBstrsep()\fP devuelve un puntero al elemento, 
esto es, devuelve el valor original de *\fIpcadena\fP.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
La función \fBstrsep()\fP se introdujo como para sustituir a \fBstrtok()\fP,
ya que esta última no puede manejar campos vacíos. Sin embargo,
\fBstrtok()\fP es conforme al ANSI-C, y por lo tanto es más portable.
.SH FALLOS
Esta función sufre de los mismos problemas que \fBstrtok()\fP.
En particular, modifica la cadena original. Evite usar esta función.
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.4
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR index (3),
.BR memchr (3),
.BR rindex (3),
.BR strchr (3),
.BR strpbrk (3),
.BR strspn (3),
.BR strstr (3),
.BR strtok (3)
