.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 13-agosto-2004
.\"
.TH TCGETSID 3 "30 enero 2003" "POSIX" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
tcgetsid \- obtiene el identificador de sesión
.SH SINOPSIS
.sp
.BR "#include <termios.h>"
.sp
.BI "pid_t tcgetsid(int " fd );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B tcgetsid()
devuelve el identificador de sesión de la sesión actual cuya terminal
de control es la terminal asociada a
.I fd.
Esta terminal debe ser la terminal de control del proceso invocador.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Cuando
.I fd
hace referencia a la terminal de control de nuestra sesión,
la función
.B tcgetsid()
devolverá el identificador de sesión de esta sesión.
En otro caso, se devuelve \-1, y se modifica
.I errno
con el valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
no es un descriptor de fichero válido.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
El proceso invocador no tiene una terminal de control, o la que
tiene no está descrita por
.IR fd .
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Esta función está implementada via el ioctl TIOCGSID, presente
desde la versión 2.1.71 de Linux.
.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1-2001.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getsid (2)

