.\" Copyright (C) 2001 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Traducido por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 13-agosto-2004
.\"
.TH TIMEGM 3 "26 diciembre 2001" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
timegm, timelocal \- funciones inversas para gmtime y localtime
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "time_t timelocal (struct tm *" tm );
.sp
.BI "time_t timegm (struct tm *" tm );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Las funciones
.B timelocal()
y
.B timegm()
son las inversas de
.BR localtime (3)
y
.BR gmtime (3).
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Estas funciones son extensiones de GNU.
La función
.B timelocal()
es equivalente a la función del estándar POSIX
.BR mktime (3).
No hay razón para usarla.
.LP
Para obtener una versión portable de
.BR timegm() ,
asigne a la variable de entorno
.B TZ
el valor UTC, llame a
.B mktime()
y restablezca el valor de
.BR TZ .
Algo así como

.RS
.nf
#include <time.h>
#include <stdlib.h>

time_t my_timegm (struct tm *tm) {
    time_t ret;
    char *tz;

    tz = getenv("TZ");
    setenv("TZ", "", 1);
    tzset();
    ret = mktime(tm);
    if (tz)
        setenv("TZ", tz, 1);
    else
        unsetenv("TZ");
    tzset();
    return ret;
}
.fi
.RE
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR gmtime (3),
.BR localtime (3),
.BR mktime (3),
.BR tzset (3)
