.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 2000-02-13 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Traducción revisada por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 1-enero-2005
.\" 
.TH TOUPPER 3  "4 abril 1993" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
toupper, tolower \- convierte letras a mayúsculas o minúsculas
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toupper (int " "c" ");"
.nl
.BI "int tolower (int " "c" ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B toupper()
convierte la letra
.I c
a mayúsculas, si es posible.
.PP
.B tolower()
convierte la letra
.I c
a minúsculas, si es posible.
.PP
Si
.I c
no es un valor char sin signo, o EOF, el comportamiento de estas funciones
es indefinido.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
El valor devuelto es la letra "convertida", o
.I c
si no se pudo realizar la conversión.
.SH "CONFORME A"
ANSI C, BSD 4.3
.SH FALLOS
Hay que tener en cuenta que los detalles de qué es mayúscula o minúscula dependen de cada lengua concreta. 
Por ejemplo, en la localización
.B """C"""
por omisión no existe la letra "umlaut", por lo que no se le aplica conversión.
.PP
En algunas localizaciones no inglesas existen letras minúsculas que no tienen su correspondiente
letra mayúscula; por ejemplo la s aguda alemana.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR isalpha "(3), " setlocale "(3), " locale (7)
