.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified 2001-12-13, Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.org>
.\" Added ttyname_r, aeb, 2002-07-20
.\"
.\" Traducción revisada por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 25-febrero-2005
.\"
.TH TTYNAME 3 "20 julio 2002" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ttyname, ttyname_r \- devuelven el nombre de una terminal
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ttyname(int " fd );
.br
.BI "int ttyname_r(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " buflen );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.BR ttyname ()
devuelve un puntero al nombre de ruta (terminado en NUL) del dispositivo
terminal que está abierto en el descriptor de fichero \fIfd\fP, o \fBNULL\fP en
caso de error
(por ejemplo, si \fIfd\fP no está conectado a una terminal).
El valor devuelto puede apuntar a datos estáticos, posiblemente sobreescritos
por la siguiente llamada.
La función
.BR ttyname_r ()
almacena este nombre de ruta en el buffer
.I buf
de longitud
.IR buflen .
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función
.BR ttyname ()
devuelve un puntero a un nombre de ruta en caso de éxito. En caso de error,
devuelve
.B NULL
, y modifica
.I errno
con el valor apropiado.
La función
.BR ttyname_r ()
devuelve 0 en caso de éxito, y un número de error si sucede un error.
.SH ERRORES
Valores asignados a
.I errno
en caso de una llamada fallida a
.BR ttyname ()
o devueltos por una llamada fallida a
.BR ttyname_r ():
.TP
.B EBADF
Descriptor de fichero incorrecto.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
El descriptor de fichero no hace referencia a un dispositivo terminal.
.TP
.B ERANGE
.I buflen
es demasiado pequeño para permitir el almacenamiento del nombre de ruta.
.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1
.\" don't know about these: SVID, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fstat (2),
.BR isatty (3)
