.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:43:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Apr  1 22:56:49 2001 by aeb
.\" Traducción revisada por Miguel Pérez Ibars <mpi79470@alu.um.es> el 25-febrero-2005
.\"
.TH USLEEP 3  "2 abril 2001" "" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
usleep \- suspende la ejecución durante un intervalo de varios microsegundos
.SH SINOPSIS
nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "void usleep(unsigned long " usec );
.br
.BI "int usleep(unsigned long " usec "); /* SUSv2 */"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBusleep()\fP suspende la ejecución del proceso llamante durante \fIusec\fP
microsegundos. La pausa puede prolongarse ligeramente por cualquier actividad 
en el sistema o por el tiempo gastado procesando la llamada.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Ninguno (BSD). 0 en caso de éxito, \-1 en caso de error (SUSv2).
.SH ERRORES
.TP
EINTR
Interrumpción de una señal.
.TP
EINVAL
\fIusec\fP no es menor de 1000000.
(En aquellos sistemas donde ésto se considere un error.)
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.3.
La versión de SUSv2 devuelve un entero, y éste es también el prototipo utilizado
por glibc 2.2.2.
El único error documentado en SUSv2 es EINVAL.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
La interacción de esta función con SIGALRM y otras funciones de alarma
como
.IR sleep (),
.IR alarm (),
.IR setitimer (),
.IR nanosleep ()
es indefinida.
Esta función está obsoleta. Use
.BR nanosleep (2)
o
.BR setitimer (2)
en su lugar.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR alarm (2),
.BR getitimer (2),
.BR nanosleep (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR sleep (3)
