.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr 2 11:32:09 MET DST
.\" 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de) 24 Apr 1993
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:28:08 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated Thu Jun 6 1996 by
.\"   Miguel Angel Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Revised Thu May 21 00:49:29 1998 by Rafael Godínez (1ragodin@rigel.deusto.es)
.\" Translation revised Wed Apr 19 2000 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH INTRO 7  "24 julio 1993" "Linux" "Miscelánea"
.SH "NOMBRE"
intro \- Introducción a la sección de convenciones y miscelánea.
.SH "DESCRIPCIÓN"
Esta sección describe convenciones y protocolos, estándares de conjuntos de
caracteres, la estructura del sistema de ficheros estándar y otros tópicos
diversos.
.SH "AUTORES"
En el encabezamiento de cada página se encuentran el ó los autores así como
las condiciones del derecho de autor. Nótese que dichas condiciones pueden
variar de página en página.
