.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:42:57 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Jul 21 21:25:26 1996 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 03:46:05 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.\" Translated 15 Dec 1995 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 30 June 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation fixed on Mon Apr 20 16:02:48 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es> 
.\"
.TH ALARM 2 "30 Junio 1996" Linux "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
alarm \- activa una alarma para el envío de una señal
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned int alarm(unsigned int " sec );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.BR alarm " se encarga de enviar una señal "  SIGALRM
al proceso en                           
.I sec
segundos.

Si
.I sec
es cero, no se prepara una nueva alarma. Además, cualquier 
.B alarm
previamente preparada se cancela.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B alarm
devuelve el número de segundos que quedaban para que cualquier alarma previa se
disparase, o cero si no había ninguna alarma pendiente.
.SH NOTAS
.BR alarm " y  " setitimer
comparten el mismo cronómetro; 
el uso de una interferirá con el de la otra.

Los retardos en la planificación pueden, como siempre, provocar el retardo de
la ejecución del proceso una cantidad arbitraria de tiempo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR setitimer (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR gettimeofday (2),
.BR select (2),
.BR pause (2),
.BR sleep (3)
