.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de),
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 19:52:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Aug 21 17:40:38 1994 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated 15 Dec 1995 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 30 Jun 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation revised Tue 26 May 1998 by Gerrado Aburruzaga García
.\" <gerardo@cica.es> 
.\"
.TH BRK 2 "30 junio 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
brk, sbrk \- cambia el tamaño del segmento de datos
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int brk(void *" end_data_segment );
.br
.BI "void *sbrk(ptrdiff_t " increment );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B brk
asigna el final del segmento de datos al valor especificado por
.IR end_data_segment .
.I end_data_segment
debe ser mayor que el final del segmento de texto y debe estar 16 kB
antes del final de la pila.
.\".sp

.B sbrk 
aumenta el espacio de datos del programa
.I increment
bytes.
.B sbrk
no es una llamada del sistema, es simplemente un envoltorio (wrapper)
de la biblioteca de C.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito,
.B brk
devuelve cero, y    
.B sbrk
da un puntero al principio de la nueva área. En caso de error, la función
devuelve \-1, y en
.I errno
se coloca el valor
.BR ENOMEM .
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.3
.BR brk " y " sbrk
no están definidos en el estándar de C y están excluidos deliberadamente del
estándar POSIX.1 (véanse los párrafos B.1.1.1.3 y B.8.3.3).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR execve (2),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR malloc (3)
