.\" Written by Ralf Baechle (ralf@waldorf-gmbh.de),
.\" Copyright (c) 1994, 1995 Waldorf GMBH
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" Translated 25 Dec 1995 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified  30 June 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Revisado Mon Apr 21 12:30:41 1998 por:
.\"         Cesar D. Lobejon (cesar@alien.mec.es)
.\" Translation revised Sun Aug 16 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH CACHEFLUSH 2 "27 Junio 1995" "Linux 2.0.32" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
cacheflush \- vacía el contenido de la caché de instrucciones y/o datos
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <asm/cachectl.h>
.sp
.BI "int cacheflush(char *" addr ", int "nbytes ", int "cache ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B cacheflush
vacía el contenido de la(s) caché(s) indicada(s) por las direcciones
de usuario en el rango 
.I addr
a
.IR (addr+nbytes-1) .
.I cache
puede ser uno de los siguientes valores:
.TP
.B ICACHE
Purga la caché de instrucciones.
.TP
.B DCACHE
Escribe en memoria e invalida las líneas de caché válidas afectadas.
.TP
.B BCACHE
Igual que
.B (ICACHE|DCACHE).
.PP
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B cacheflush
devuelve 0 si finaliza con éxito o \-1 en caso de error. Si se detectan errores,
la variable
.I errno
indicará el tipo de error.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EINVAL
El parámetro cache no es ninguno de los valores aceptados ICACHE, DCACHE, o BCACHE.
.TP
.B EFAULT
Todo o parte del rango de direcciones de
.I addr
a
.I (addr+nbytes-1)
no es accesible.
.PP
.SH FALLOS
La implementación actual ignora los parámetros
.I addr
y
.IR nbytes .
Por lo tanto siempre se vacía toda la caché.
.SH NOTA
Esta llamada del sistema sólo está disponible en sistemas basados en
MIPS. No debería ser usada en programas que pretendan ser portables.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR cachectl "(2)"
