.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Wed Jul 21 22:10:52 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Added 'fchdir'.
.\"   Fix bugs in error section.
.\" Translated 18 Dec 1995 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 30 June 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Modified Mon Oct 21 23:05:29 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified by Joseph S. Myers <jsm28@cam.ac.uk>, 970821
.\" Translation revised 19 April 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\"
.TH CHDIR 2 "21 agosto 1997" "Linux 2.0.30" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
chdir, fchdir \- cambia el directorio de trabajo
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int chdir(const char *" path );
.br
.BI "int fchdir(int " fd ");"
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B chdir
cambia el directorio presente a aquel especificado en 
.IR path .
.PP
.B fchdir
es lo mismo que
.BR chdir ,
solo que el directorio está dado como un descriptor de fichero abierto.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, cero. Si hay algún error, \-1, y se asigna a 
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
Depediendo del sistema de ficheros, se pueden devolver otros errores.
Los errores más comunes se listan a continuación:
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I path
apunta fuera de su espacio de direcciones accesible.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
es demasiado largo.
.TP
.B ENOENT
El fichero no existe.   
.TP
.B ENOMEM
No hay suficiente memoria disponible en el kernel.  
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Un componente del camino
.I path
no es un directorio.
.TP
.B EACCES
Ha sido denegado el permiso de búsqueda en uno de los componentes
del camino
.IR path .
.TP
.B ELOOP
Se han encontrado demasiados enlaces simbólicos al resolver
.IR path .
.TP
.B EIO
Ha ocurrido un error de E/S.
.PP
Los errores más comunes para
.B fchdir
se muestran a continuación:
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
no es un descriptor válido de fichero.
.TP
.B EACCES
Se ha denegado el permiso de búsqueda sobre el directorio abierto en
.IR fd .
.SH "CONFORME A"
La llamada
.B chdir
es compatible con SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, 4.4BSD.  SVr4 documenta
las condiciones de error adicionales EINTR, ENOLINK y EMULTIHOP pero no
tiene ENOMEM.  POSIX.1 no tiene las condiciones de error ENOMEM o ELOOP.
X/OPEN no tiene las condiciones de error EFAULT, ENOMEM ni EIO.
La llamada
.B fchdir
es compatible con SVr4, 4.4BSD y X/OPEN.
SVr4 documenta las condiciones de error adicionales EIO, EINTR y ENOLINK.
X/OPEN documenta las condiciones de error adicionales EINTR y EIO.
.SH "VÉASE TAMIBIÉN"
.BR getcwd (3),
.BR chroot (2)
