.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Removed note about old libc (pre-4.5.26) translating to 'sync'.
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com):
.\"   Added 'see also' section.
.\" Modified 13 Apr 1996 by Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"   Added remarks about fdatasync.
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:27:42 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated 25 Dec 1995 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 1 Jul 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Spanish version updated Mon 21 Jul 1997 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian
.\" Translation revised 28 Apr 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga García
.\"         <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH FSYNC 2 "1 julio 1996" "Linux 1.3.85" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE 
fsync \- sincroniza el estado completo en memoria de un fichero con el
del disco
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int fsync(int " fd );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B fsync
copia todas las partes que estén en memoria de un fichero al disco.

En algunas aplicaciones, 
.B fdatasync
es una alternativa más eficiente a
.BR fsync .
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, devuelve 0. En caso de error, \-1, y la variable
.I errno
toma un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.B fd
no es un descriptor de fichero válido para escribir.
.TP
.B EROFS ", " EINVAL
.B fd
está enlazado a un fichero especial que no admite sincronización.
.TP
.B EIO
Ha ocurrido un error durante la sincronización.
.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1b (anteriormente POSIX.4)
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fdatasync (2),
.BR sync (2),
.BR update (8),
.BR sync (8).
