.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated 8 Jan 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 1 Jul 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation revised on Wed Apr 29 18:30:20 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH GETDTABLESIZE 2 "1 julio 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getdtablesize \- obtiene el tamaño de la tabla de descriptores
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int getdtablesize(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B getdtablesize
devuelve el número máximo de ficheros que un proceso puede tener abiertos.
.SH NOTAS
.B getdtablesize
está implementada como una función de biblioteca en DLL 4.4.1.  
Esta función devuelve 
.B OPEN_MAX
(que vale 256 en Linux 2.0.23) si 
.B OPEN_MAX
fue definido cuando se compiló la biblioteca. De otra forma, se
devuelve \-1 y a
.I errno
se le asigna el valor  
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH CONFORME A
SVr4, 4.4BSD (la función
.B getdtablesize
apareció por primera vez en BSD 4.2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR close (2),
.BR dup (2),
.BR open (2)
