.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Updated with additions from Mitchum DSouza (m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk)
.\" Portions Copyright 1993 Mitchum DSouza (m.dsouza@mrc-apu.cam.ac.uk)
.\" Translated 10 Jan 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (miguel@typhoon.harvard.edu)
.\" Modified 1 Jul 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation revised May 5 1998 by Jordi Gili <jordi@enterprise.udg.es>
.\"
.TH GETHOSTID 2 "1 julio 1996" "Linux 0.99.13" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
gethostid, sethostid \- obtiene o asigna un identificador único al          
anfitrión (host) actual.
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B long int gethostid(void);
.br
.BI "int sethostid(long int " hostid );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Obtiene o asigna un identificador único de 32-bits para el ordenador
actual. El identificador de 32-bits pretende ser único entre todos los
sistemas UNIX existentes. Este normalmente asemeja la dirección Internet
para el sistema local, dado por 
.BR gethostbyname (3),
y por lo tanto, normalmente nunca necesita ser asignado.

El uso de la llamada
.B sethostid
está restringida al superusuario.  

El argumento
.I hostid
se encuentra almacenado en el fichero 
.IR /etc/hostid .
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO" 
.B gethostid
devuelve el identificador de 32-bits del anfitrión (host) actual 
asignado por 
.BR sethostid (2).
.SH "CONFORME A"
4.2BSD. Estas funciones se encuentran en 4.4BSD. POSIX.1 no 
define estas funciones, pero ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990 las menciona
en B.4.4.1. SVr4 incluye
.B gethostid
pero no
.BR sethostid.
.SH FICHEROS
.I /etc/hostid
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR hostid (1),
.BR gethostbyname (3)
