.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   'gethostname' is real system call on Linux/Alpha.
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:30:53 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified  19 Dec 1997 Miguel Gil (mgilgar@usa.net)
.\" Translation revised May 5 1998 by Jordi Gili <jordi@enterprise.udg.es>
.\"
.TH GETHOSTNAME 2 "22 julio 1995" "Linux 1.3.6" "Manual del programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
gethostname, sethostname \- obtiene/asigna el nombre del host
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int gethostname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int sethostname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Estas funciones se usan para obtener o cambiar el nombre del host del
proceso actual. 
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito devuelve un 0. En caso de error,devuelve un \-1, y 
.I errno
se asigna apropiadamente.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I len
es negativo o, para
.BR sethostname ,
.I len
es mas largo que el máximo de tamaño permitido,
o, para
.BR gethostname
en Linux/i386,
.I len
es mas corto que el tamaño actual.
.TP
.B EPERM
Para
.BR sethostname ,
realizar la llamada no hace falta estar como superusuario.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I name
es una dirección inválida.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, 4.4BSD  (esta función apareció por primera vez en 4.2BSD).
POSIX.1 no define estas funciones, pero ISO/IEC 9945-1:1990 las menciona
en B.4.4.1.  
.SH FALLOS
Otras implementaciones de
.B gethostname
devuelven en caso de éxito
.I len
bytes incluso si
.I name
es mas largo.
Linux/Alpha obedece a este comportamiento.
Linux/i386, sin embargo, devuelve
.B EINVAL
en este caso (a partir de las bibliotecas libc6 2.0.4).
.SH NOTAS
Sobre Linux/Alpha,
.B gethostname
es una llamada al sistema.
Sobre Linux/i386,
.B gethostname
está implementada en el ámbito de bibliotecas mediante la llamada
.BR uname (2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getdomainname (2),
.BR setdomainname (2),
.BR uname (2)
