.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpeername.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:37:50 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Thu Jul 30 14:37:50 1993 by Martin Schulze <joey@debian.org>
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Feb 13 16:49:57 CET 1998 by
.\" 	Gerardo Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Modified Sun Mar 28 21:26:46 1999 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Translation revised on Sun Apr 4 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH GETPEERNAME 2 "30 julio 1993" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getpeername \- obtiene el nombre de la pareja conectada
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int getpeername(int " s ", struct sockaddr *" nombre ", socklen_t *" longinom );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B Getpeername
devuelve el nombre de la pareja conectada al zócalo
.IR s .
El parámetro
.I longinom
debería inicializarse de forma que indicara la cantidad de espacio a
la que apuntara
.IR nombre .
Al regresar la función, contendrá el tamaño real del nombre devuelto
(en bytes). El nombre se trunca si el búfer provisto es demasiado pequeño.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
El argumento
.I s
no es un descriptor válido.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
El argumento
.I s
es un fichero, no un zócalo.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
El zócalo no está conectado.
.TP
.B ENOBUFS
No había en el sistema suficientes recursos como para efectuarse la
operación. 
.TP
.B EFAULT
El parámetro
.I nombre
apunta a memoria que no está en una zona válida del espacio de
direcciones del proceso.
.SH CONFORME A
SVr4, 4.4BSD (la llamada al sistema
.B getpeername
apareció por vez 1ª en 4.2BSD).
.SH NOTA
El tercer argumento de
.B getpeername
es en realidad un entero (y esto es lo que tienen BSD 4.*, libc4 y libc5).
Cierta confusión en POSIX dio como resultado el actual socklen_t.
El estándar propuesto todavía no ha sido adoptado pero glibc2 ya lo sigue y
también tiene socklen_t. Vea también
.BR accept (2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR getsockname (2)
