.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions from /usr/include/unistd.h are
.\"               Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Feb 13 16:49:57 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH GETPAGESIZE 2 "22 Octubre 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getpagesize \- obtiene el tamaño de página del sistema
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B size_t getpagesize(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Devuelve el número de bytes de una página. Éste es el tamaño de página
del sistema, que no es necesariamente el mismo que el tamaño de página
de hardware.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
.B getpagesize
está implementada como una función de biblioteca en las DLL
4.4.1. Dependiendo de lo que se defina cuando la biblioteca se
compile, esta función devuelve
.B EXEC_PAGESIZE
(puesto a 4096 en Linux 0.99.11),
.B NBPG
(puesto a 4096 en Linux 0.99.11), o
.B NBPC
(no definido ni en Linux 0.99.11 ni en las bibliotecas DLL 4.4.1).
.SH CONFORME A
SVr4, 4.4BSD (esta llamada al sistema apareció por 1ª vez en 4.2BSD).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sbrk (2)
