.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1997 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Translation revised Mon Aug 17 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH GETRESUID 2 "16 Julio 1997" "Linux 2.1.44" "Manual de Programacion de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getresuid, getresgid \- devuelve el ID real, efectivo o salvado del usuario o
grupo
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getresuid(uid_t *" ruid ", uid_t *" euid ", uid_t *" suid );
.br
.BI "int getresgid(gid_t *" rgid ", gid_t *" egid ", gid_t *" sgid ); 
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B getresuid
and
.B getresgid
(ambos introducidos en Linux 2.1.44)
devuelven en ID real, efectivo y salvado del usuario (resp. ID de grupo) del
proceso actual.

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si es correcto, devuelve el valor 0. Caso de error, devuelve el valor \-1 y la
variable
.I errno
es modificada apropiadamente.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EFAULT
Uno de los argumentos especificó una dirección fuera del rango del espacio de
direcciones del programa.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta llamada es específica de Linux
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getuid (2),
.BR setuid (2),
.BR getreuid (2),
.BR setreuid (2),
.BR setresuid (2)