.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from linux/mm/swap.c:
.\"                Copyright (C) 1991, 1992  Linus Torvalds
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 21 Aug 1994 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added text about calling restriction (new in kernel 1.1.20 I believe).
.\"   N.B. calling "idle" from user process used to hang process!
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:41:15 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translation revised May 2 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es> with
.\" fixes from Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Translation revised Sat Jan  8 2000 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH IDLE 2 "21 agosto 1994" "Linux 1.1.46" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
idle \- deja inactivo al proceso 0
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int idle(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B idle
es una llamada al sistema interna utilizada durante el arranque del sistema.
Marca las paginas de memoria del proceso intercambiables
y entra en el bucle principal del planificador.
.B idle
nunca regresa.
.PP
Sólo el proceso 0 puede llamar a
.BR idle .
Cualquier proceso de usuario, incluso uno con permisos de superusuario
recibira el valor
.BR EPERM .
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B idle
nunca regresa para el proceso 0, y siempre devuelve el valor \-1 para un
proceso de usuario.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
Siempre, para un proceso de usuario.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta funcion es especifica de Linux y no debe ser utilizada en programas que
se espera sean portables.
.SH NOTAS
Desde 2.3.13 esta llamada al sistema ya no existe.
