.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ioctl.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:38:19 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Mon Feb 16 14:27:30 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Modified Fri Jun 25 23:51:39 BST 1999 by Rachael Munns <vashti@dream.org.
.\" Translation revised Sat Jan  8 2000 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH IOCTL 2 "22 octubre 1996" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ioctl \- controlar dispositivo
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/ioctl.h>
.sp
.BI "int ioctl(int " d ", int " peticion ", ...)"
.sp
[El "tercer" argumento es tradicionalmente \fBchar *\fIargp\fR, y así
se le llamará de aquí en adelante.]
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B ioctl
manipula los parámetros subyacentes de ficheros especiales. En
particular, muchas características operacionales de los ficheros
especiales de caracteres (verbigracia las terminales) pueden
controlarse con llamadas a
.BR ioctl .
El argumento
.I d
debe ser un descriptor de fichero abierto.

Una 
.I peticion
de ioctl tiene codificada en sí misma si el argumento es un parámetro de
.I entrada
o de
.IR salida ,
y el tamaño del argumento
.I argp
en bytes.  En el fichero de cabecera
.I <sys/ioctl.h>
se definen macros empleadas al especificar una
.I peticion
de ioctl.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP 0.7i
.B EBADF
.I d
no es un descriptor válido.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I argp
referencia a una zona de memoria inaccesible.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I d
no está asociado con un dispositivo especial de caracteres.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
La petición especificada no se aplica a la clase de objeto que
referencia el descriptor
.IR d .
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Peticion
o
.I argp
no es válido.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Ningún estándar en particular. Los argumentos, valores devueltos y
semántica de
.BR ioctl (2) 
varían según el controlador de dispositivo en cuestión (la llamada se
usa como un recogedor para las operaciones que no encajen claramente
en el modelo de flujos de E/S de Unix). Vea
.BR ioctl_list (2)
para una lista de muchas de las llamadas conocidas a
.BR ioctl .
La función
.B ioctl
apareció por primera vez en Unix de AT&T Versión 7.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR mt (4),
.BR sd (4),
.BR tty (4)
