.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)killpg.2    6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:55:01 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 08:11:14 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated 16 Jan 1998 by Vicente Pastor Gómez <VPASTORG@santandersupernet.com , vicpastor@hotmail.com>
.\"
.TH KILLPG 2 "23 julio 1993" "Página de manual de BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
killpg \- enviar una señal a un grupo de procesos
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(int " pgrp ", int " sig );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B Killpg
envía la señal
.I sig
al grupo de procesos
.IR pgrp .
Véase
.BR sigaction (2)
para una lista de señales. Si
.I pgrp
es 0,
.B killpg
envía la señal al grupo de procesos del proceso que envía la señal.

El proceso que envía, y los miembros del grupo de procesos deben tener
todos el mismo ID de usuario efectivo, o el que envía debe ser superusuario.
Como excepción, la señal de continuar
.B SIGCONT
puede enviarse a cualquier proceso que sea descendiente del proceso actual.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si hay éxito, se devuelve cero. Si hubo error, se devuelve \-1, y
.I errno
se actualiza apropiadamente.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Sig
no es un número de señal válido.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No se encuentran procesos en el grupo de procesos especificado por
.IR pgrp .
.TP
.B ESRCH
El grupo de procesos se dió como 0, pero el proceso que envía no tiene
grupo de procesos.
.TP
.B EPERM
El proceso que envía no es superusuario, y uno o más de los procesos
objetivo tiene ID de usuario efectivo diferente del ID del proceso que envía.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, 4.4BSD (La llamada
.B killpg
apareció por primera vez en BSD 4.0).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR kill (2),
.BR getpgrp (2),
.BR signal (2)
