.\" Copyright (C) 1995 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Written 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 15:16:23 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translation revised May 3 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\" Translation revised Aug 17 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH LLSEEK 2 "10 Junio 1995" "Linux 1.2.9" "Manual de Programacion de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
_llseek \- reposiciona el puntero de lectura/escritura
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall5(int, _llseek, uint, fd, ulong, hi, ulong, lo, loff_t *, res, uint, wh);
.sp
.BI "int _llseek(unsigned int " fd ", unsigned long " offset_high ", unsigned long " offset_low ", loff_t * " result ", unsigned int " whence );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B _llseek
reposiciona el puntero del descriptor de fichero
.I fd
hasta
.I (offset_high<<32) | offset_low
bytes respecto al inicio del fichero, la posición actual del puntero,
o del final del fichero, dependiendo de si 
.I  whence
es
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
o
.BR SEEK_END ,
respectivamente.
Devuelve la posición resultante en el argumento
.IR result .

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si no se produce ningun error,
.B _llseek
devuelve 0. Si se produce, se devuelve el valor -1 y se asigna a
.I errno
un valor que indica el tipo de error que se ha producido.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
no es un descriptor de fichero abierto.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I whence
no es válido.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta función es específica de Linux, y no debería usarse por programas que
deban de ser portables.
.SH FALLOS
El sistema de ficheros ext2 no soporta ficheros con un tamaño de 2 GB o más.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR lseek (2)

