'\" t
.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"     This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"     California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)lseek.2     6.5 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 22:17:00 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 15:18:33 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sat Jan 17 13:00:32 MET 1998 by Michael Haardt <michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de>
.\" Translation revised May 3 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\" Translation revised Tue Aug 18 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\" Translation revised Sat Jan  8 2000 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH LSEEK 2 "17 enero 1998" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
lseek \- reposiciona el puntero de lectura/escritura de un fichero
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "off_t lseek(int " fildes ", off_t " offset ", int " whence );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B lseek
reposiciona el puntero del descriptor de fichero
.I fildes
con el argumento
.I offset
de acuerdo con la directiva
.I whence
as follows:
.TP
.B SEEK_SET
El puntero se coloca a
.I offset
bytes.
.TP
.B SEEK_CUR
El número de bytes indicado en
.I offset
se suma a la dirección actual y el puntero se coloca en la dirección
resultante.
.TP
.B SEEK_END
El puntero se coloca al final del fichero más
.I offset
bytes.
.PP
La función
.B lseek
permite colocar el puntero de fichero después del final de fichero.
Si después se escriben datos en este punto, las lecturas siguientes de datos
dentro del hueco que se forma devuelven ceros (hasta que realmente se
escriban datos dentro de ese hueco).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En el caso de una ejecución correcta,
.B lseek
devuelve la posición del puntero resultante medida en bytes desde el principio
del fichero. Si se produce un error, se devuelve el valor (off_t)\-1 y en
.I errno
se coloca el tipo de error.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fildes
no es un descriptor de fichero abierto.
.TP
.B ESPIPE
.I fildes
está asociado a una tubería, socket, o FIFO.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I whence
no es un valor adecuado.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH RESTRICCIONES
Algunos dispositivos son incapaces de buscar y POSIX no especifica qué
dispositivos deben soportar la búsqueda.

Restricciones específicas de Linux: el uso de \fBlseek\fP sobre un
dispositivo tty (terminal) devuelve \fBESPIPE\fP. Otros sistemas devuelven
el número de caracteres escritos, usando SEEK_SET para establecer el
contador. Algunos dispositivos, como por ejemplo \fB/dev/null\fP, no
provocan el error \fBESPIPE\fP, pero devuelven un puntero cuyo valor es
indefinido.
.SH NOTAS
La utilización de
.I whence
en este documento es incorrecta en inglés, pero se usa por
motivos históricos.
Cuando convierta código antiguo, sustituya los valores para \fIwhence\fP con
las siguientes macros:
.PP
.TS
c c
l l.
antiguo	nuevo
0	SEEK_SET
1	SEEK_CUR
2	SEEK_END
L_SET	SEEK_SET
L_INCR	SEEK_CUR
L_XTND	SEEK_END
.TE
.PP
SVR1-3 devuelve \fBlong\fP en lugar de \fBoff_t\fP, BSD devuelve \fBint\fP.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR dup (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR fseek (3)
