.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1995-11-26  Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"      First version written
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish on May 13 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH MUNLOCKALL 2 "26 noviembre 1995" "Linux 1.3.43" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
munlockall \- vuelve a activar la paginación para el proceso invocador
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/mman.h>
.sp
\fBint munlockall(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B munlockall
vuelve a habilitar la paginación para todas las páginas asociadas al
espacio de direcciones del proceso que hace esta llamada.

Los bloqueos de memoria no se apilan; esto es, las páginas que han
sido bloqueadas algunas veces mediante llamadas a
.B mlock
o a
.B mlockall
serán desbloqueadas por una sola llamada a
.B munlock
para el rango correspondiente, o por
.BR munlockall .
Las páginas que están asociadas a varios lugares o por varios procesos
permanecen bloqueadas en RAM mientras estén bloqueadas por lo menos en
un lugar o por al menos un proceso.

En sistemas POSIX en los que
.B mlock
y
.B munlock
estén disponibles,
se define en <unistd.h> la constante
.BR _POSIX_MEMLOCK .

.SH VALOR DEVUELTO
En caso de éxito,
.B munlockall
devuelve cero. En caso de error devuelve \-1 y pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1b, SVr4
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR mlockall (2),
.BR mlock (2), 
.BR munlock (2)
