.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt <drew@cs.colorado.edu>, March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:51:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Mon Nov  4 21:02:11 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Sat Jan 17 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH NICE 2 "4 noviembre 1996" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
nice \- cambia la prioridad de un proceso
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int nice(int " inc );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B nice
añade
.I inc
a la prioridad del proceso que hace la llamada. Sólo el súper-usuario puede
especificar un incremento negativo, o sea, un aumento de la prioridad. 
.PP
Observe que internamente, un número más alto es una prioridad más alta. No
se confunda con el esquema de prioridad empleado por el programa
\fBnice\fP.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1 y se
pone un valor apropiado en \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
Un usuario normal intenta aumentar la prioridad, disminuyendo el valor
numérico suministrando a la función un 
.IR inc 
negativo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID EXT, AT&T, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3.  SVr4 documenta un código de error
adicional EINVAL.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR nice (1),
.BR setpriority (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR renice (8)
