.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain (mec@duracef.shout.net):
.\"   Fixed incorrect word in 'TH' call.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 16:44:55 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Jan 16 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga García
.\" <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es> 
.\"
.TH OBSOLETE 2 "22 octubre 1996" "Linux 2.0" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
oldfstat, oldlstat, oldstat, oldolduname, olduname \- llamadas al
sistema obsoletas
.SH SINOPSIS
Llamadas al sistema en desuso.
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
El núcleo Linux 2.0 implementa estas llamadas para dar soporte a
ejecutables antiguos. Estas llamadas devuelven estructuras que han
crecido desde su primera implementación, pero los ejecutables
antiguos deben continuar recibiendo estructuras antiguas más pequeñas.
.PP
Los ejecutables actuales deben enlazarse con las bibliotecas actuales
y nunca deben emplear estas llamadas.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Estas llamadas son únicas a Linux y no deberían emplearse de nungún
modo en nuevos programas.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR uname (2),
.BR undocumented (2),
.BR unimplemented (2)
