.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 23:25:42 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 17:23:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Jan 20 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH PIPE 2 "22 octubre 1996" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
pipe \- crea una tubería o interconexión
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int pipe(int " descf "[2]);"
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B pipe
crea un par de descriptores de ficheros, que apuntan a un nodo-í de
una tubería, y los pone en el vector de dos elementos apuntado por
.I descf.
.I descf[0]   
es para lectura,
.I descf[1]
es para escritura.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error se devuelve \-1 y
se pone un valor apropiado en \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EMFILE
El proceso tiene en uso demasiados descriptores de ficheros.
.TP
.B ENFILE
La tabla de ficheros del sistema está llena.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I descf
no es válido.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID, AT&T, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fork (2),
.BR socketpair (2)
