.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)readlink.2	6.8 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:10:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Tue Jul  9 23:55:17 1996 by aeb
.\" Modified Fri Jan 24 00:26:00 1997 by aeb
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Jan 21 1998 by Gerrado Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised 21 April 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\"
.TH READLINK 2 "21 agosto 1997" "Linux 2.0.30" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
readlink \- lee el valor de un enlace simbólico
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int readlink(const char *" camino ", char *" buf ", size_t " tambuf );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B readlink
pone los contenidos del enlace simbólico
.I camino
en el búfer
.IR buf ,
que tiene de tamaño
.IR tambuf .
.B readlink
no añade un carácter
.B NUL
a
.IR buf .
Truncará los contenidos (hasta una longitud de
.I tambuf
caracteres), en caso de que el búfer sea demasiado pequeño para
alojar todo el contenido.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La llamada devuelve el número de caracteres puestos en el búfer si
acaba con éxito, o un \-1 si ocurre un error, poniendo el código
correspondiente de error en
.IR errno .
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
Un componente del prefijo del camino no es un directorio.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I tambuf
no es positivo.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
El camino o un componente del camino es demasiado largo.
.TP
.B ENOENT
El fichero nombrado no existe.
.TP
.B EACCES
Se deniega el permiso de búsqueda para un componente del prefijo del camino.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Se encontraron demasiados enlaces simbólicos al traducir el nombre del
fichero.
.TP
.B EINVAL
El fichero nombrado no es un enlace simbólico.
.TP
.B EIO
Ocurrió un error de E/S al leer del sistema de ficheros.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I buf
se extiende afuera del espacio de direcciones reservado por el proceso.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
No hay suficiente memoria en el núcleo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
X/OPEN, 4.4BSD (la llamada al sistema
.B readlink
apareció en 4.2BSD).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR stat (2),
.BR lstat (2),
.BR symlink (2)
