.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Tom Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tom Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\" Translated into Spanish Mon Feb 2 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH RR_GET_INTERVAL 2 "2 febrero 1998" "Linux 1.3.81" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
sched_rr_get_interval  \- obtiene el intervalo SCHED_RR para el
proceso especificado
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
\fBint sched_rr_get_interval(pid_t \fIpid\fB, struct timespec *\fItp\fB);
.sp
.nf
.ta 4n 12n 24n
\fBstruct timespec {
	time_t	tv_sec;	/* segundos */
	long	tv_nsec;	/* nanosegundos */
};
.ta
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B sched_rr_get_interval
escribe en la estructura \fItimespec\fR apuntada por \fItp\fR el
cuanto (quantum) de tiempo de asignación en rueda (round robin) para
el proceso identificado por \fIpid\fR. Si
\fIpid\fR es cero, el cuanto de tiempo para el proceso que hace la
llamada se escribe en *\fItp\fR. El proceso identificado debe
ejecutarse bajo la política de planificación
.IR SCHED_RR .

El cuanto de tiempo de asignación en rueda no es alterable bajo Linux
1.3.81.

Los sistemas POSIX en los que está disponible
.B sched_rr_get_interval
definen
.I _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
en <unistd.h>.

.SH VALOR DEVUELTO
En caso de éxito,
.B sched_rr_get_interval
devuelve 0.
En caso de  error, se devuelve \-1 y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B ESRCH
El proceso cuyo ID es \fIpid\fR no ha podido ser encontrado.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
La llamada al sistema no está implementada todavía.
.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1b (anteriormente POSIX.4)
.SH FALLOS
En Linux 1.3.81 \fBsched_rr_get_interval\fR regresaba con el error
ENOSYS, porque SCHED_RR no había sido aún implementada completamente
ni comprobada correctamente.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sched_setscheduler (2) 
contiene una descripción del esquema de planificación de Linux.
.PP
.I Programming for the real world \- POSIX.4
por Bill O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0
.br
.I IEEE Std 1003.1b-1993
(estándar POSIX.1b, antiguamente POSIX.4)
.br
.I ISO/IEC 9945-1:1996
