.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) Tom Bjorkholm & Markus Kuhn, 1996
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 1996-04-01 Tom Bjorkholm <tomb@mydata.se>
.\"            First version written
.\" 1996-04-10 Markus Kuhn <mskuhn@cip.informatik.uni-erlangen.de>
.\"            revision
.\" Translated into Spanish Mon Feb 2 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SCHED_YIELD 2 "2 Febrero 1998" "Linux 1.3.81" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
sched_yield \- cede el procesador
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
\fBint sched_yield(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Un proceso puede abandonar el procesador voluntariamente sin
bloquearse llamando a
.BR sched_yield .
Entonces el proceso se pondrá al final de la cola para su prioridad
estática y un nuevo proceso obtendrá la ejecución.

Nota: Si el proceso en curso es el único de la lista de más alta
prioridad en ese tiempo, este proceso continuará en ejecución después
de la llamada a
.BR sched_yield .

En sistemas POSIX donde está disponible
.B sched_yield
se define
.I _POSIX_PRIORITY_SCHEDULING
en <unistd.h>.

.SH VALOR DEVUELTO
En caso de éxito,
.B sched_yield
devuelve 0.
En caso de error, se devuelve \-1 y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.

.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1b (anteriormente POSIX.4)
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sched_setscheduler (2)
para una descripción de la planificación en Linux. 
.PP
.I Programming for the real world \- POSIX.4
por Bill O. Gallmeister, O'Reilly & Associates, Inc., ISBN 1-56592-074-0
.br
.I IEEE Std 1003.1b-1993
(estándar POSIX.1b)
.br
.I ISO/IEC 9945-1:1996
