.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:14:13 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>
.\"   Update calling parameters to Linux 1.2.4 values.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 3 May 1996 by Martin Schulze <joey@infodrom.north.de>
.\" Modified Wed Nov  6 04:05:28 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Jan 27 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SETUP 2 "27 Enero 1998" "Linux 1.2.9" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
setup \- pone a punto dispositivos y sistemas de ficheros, monta el
sistema de ficheros raíz
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B _syscall0(int, setup);
.sp
.B int setup(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B setup
se llama una vez desde 
.IR linux/init/main.c .
Llama a funciones de inicio para dispositivos y sistemas de
ficheros configurados en el núcleo y luego monta el sistema de
ficheros raíz.
.PP
Ningún proceso de usuario puede llamar a
.BR setup .
Cualquier proceso de usuario, incluso un proceso con permisos de
súper-usuario, recibirá
.BR EPERM .
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B setup
siempre devuelve \-1 para un proceso de usuario.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
Siempre, para un proceso de usuario.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta función es específica de Linux, y no debe emplearse en programas
pretendidamente transportables.
