.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     $Id: shutdown.2,v 1.1.1.1 2001/11/25 17:34:31 carlos Exp $
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 09:57:55 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:04:51 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified 1998 by Andi Kleen
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Jan 28 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga García
.\" <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised on Sat Jun 26 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH SHUTDOWN 2 "28 enero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
shutdown \- cierra parte de una conexión bidireccional
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int shutdown(int " s ", int " como );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La llamada a
.B shutdown
causa que se cierre completamente o en parte una conexión
bidireccional en el conector asociado con \fIs\fP.
Si
.I como
es 0, no se permitirán más recepciones. Si
.I como
es 1, no se permitirán más envíos. Si
.I como
es 2, no se permitirán más envíos ni recepciones.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone un valor apropiado en \fIerrno\fP.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
.I s
no es un desccriptor válido.
.TP
.B ENOTSOCK
.I s
es un fichero, no un conector.
.TP
.B ENOTCONN
El conector especificado no está conectado.
.SH "CONFORME A"
4.4BSD (la función
.B shutdown
apareció por primera vez en 4.2BSD).
.SH FALLOS
Las opciones numéricas
.I how
deben ser reemplazadas por las opciones
.BR SHUT_RD ,
.BR SHUT_WR
y
.BR SHUT_RDWR ,
según ordena "the Single Unix Specification".
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR connect (2),
.BR socket (2)
