.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigblock.2	6.7 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:09:15 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Aug 11 1995 by Stephen Lee <sl14@cornell.edu>
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby <mib@deakin.edu.au>
.\" Translated into Spanish Thu Jan 29 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SIGBLOCK 2 "29 enero 1998" "Linux 1.3" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
sigblock, siggetmask, sigsetmask, sigmask \- manipulan la máscara de señales
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigblock(int " mascara );
.sp
.B int siggetmask(void);
.sp
.BI "int sigsetmask(int " mascara );
.sp
.BI "int sigmask(int " signum );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Esta interfaz está anticuada desde que existe
.BR sigprocmask (2).

La llamada al sistema
.B sigblock
añade las señales especificadas en
.I mascara
al conjunto de señales que actualmente están bloqueadas para su envío.
.PP
La llamada al sistema
.B sigsetmask
reemplaza totalmente el conjunto de señales bloqueadas con un nuevo
conjunto especificado en 
.IR mascara .
Las señales están bloqueadas si el bit correspondiente en
.I mascara
está a 1.
.PP
El conjunto actual de señales bloqueadas puede obtenerse empleando
.BR siggetmask .
.PP
La macro
.B sigmask
sirve para construir la máscara para una señal dada por su número o macro
.IR signum .

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B siggetmask
devuelve el conjunto actual de señales en la máscara.

.B sigsetmask 
y
.B sigblock
devuelven el conjunto anterior de señales en la máscara.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
Los prototipos de estas funciones sólo están disponibles si se define
.B __USE_BSD
antes de inclui
.BR <signal.h> .
.PP
No es posible bloquear
.B SIGKILL
o
.B SIGSTOP
\- esta restricción viene impuesta calladamente por el sistema.

.SH "CONFORME A"
4.4BSD. Estas funciones aparecieron en BSD 4.3 y no se recomienda su
empleo, pues seguramente serán retiradas en el futuro.
Para programas nuevos utilice las funciones de manejo de señales de POSIX.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR signal (7)
