.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)sigpause.2	6.6 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:09:26 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 1995 by Mike Battersby <mib@deakin.edu.au>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:07:56 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Jan 30 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es> 
.\"
.TH SIGPAUSE 2 "30 enero 1998" "Linux 1.3" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
sigpause \- libera atómicamente señales bloqueadas y espera interrupción
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int sigpause(int " sigmask );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Esta interfaz está anticuada desde que existe
.BR sigsuspend (2).

.B sigpause
asigna
.I sigmask
al conjunto de señales enmascaradas y luego espera que llegue una
señal; al regresar, se restaura el conjunto de señales enmascaradas.
.PP
.I sigmask
es normalmente 0 para indicar que no se va a bloquear ninguna señal.
.B sigpause
siempre termina siendo interrumpida, devolviendo \-1 con
.I errno
valiendo
.BR EINTR .
.SH "CONFORME A"
4.4BSD.  La función
.B sigpause
apareció en 4.3BSD y no se recomienda su uso pues puede ser retirada
en cualquier momento.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sigsuspend (2),
.BR kill (2),
.BR sigaction (2),
.BR sigprocmask (2),
.BR sigblock (2),
.BR sigvec (2)
