.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Sat Aug 21 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:09:03 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH SIGRETURN 2 "21 agosto 1995" "Linux 1.3.20" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
sigreturn \- regresa desde el manejador de señales y limpia el marco de pila
.SH SINOPSIS
.BI "int sigreturn(unsigned long " __unused );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Cuando el núcleo de Linux crea la estructura de pila para el manejador de
señales, inserta una
llamada a
.B sigreturn
en la estructura de pila aunque el manejador de señales llamará a
.B sigreturn
a su vuelta. Esta llamada a
.B sigreturn
limpia la pila aunque el proceso puede restaurar desde donde fue
interrumpido por la señal.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B sigreturn
nunca regresa.
.SH PRECAUCIÓN
La llamada
.B sigreturn
es usada por el núcleo para inplementar el manejador de señales.
.B Nunca
debe ser llamada directamente. Mejor aún, el uso específico del argumento
.I __unused
varía dependiendo de la arquitectura.
.SH "CONFORME A"
.B sigreturn
es específico para Linux y no debe ser usado en programas que deban ser portados.
.SH FICHEROS
/usr/src/linux/arch/i386/kernel/signal.c
.br
/usr/src/linux/arch/alpha/kernel/entry.S
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR kill (2),
.BR signal (2),
.BR signal (7)
