.\" Copyright (c) 1983, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)socketpair.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 10:49:44 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:15:39 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Feb 3 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SOCKETPAIR 2 "3 febrero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
socketpair \- crea un par de conectores conectados
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/socket.h>
.sp
.BI "int socketpair(int " d ", int " tipo ", int " protocolo ", int " sv [2]);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La llamada a
.N socketpair
crea una pareja sin nombre de conectores (`sockets', enchufes) en el
dominio especificado por
.IR d ,
del tipo especificado por
.IR tipo ,
y empleando opcionalmente el protocolo especificado por
.IR protocolo .
Los descriptores utilizados para referenciar los nuevos conectores se
devuelven en
.IR sv [0]
y
.IR sv [1].
Los dos conectores son indistinguibles.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EMFILE
Demasiados descriptores están en uso por este proceso.
.TP
.B EAFNOSUPPORT
La familia de direcciones especificada no está admitida en esta máquina.
.TP
.B EPROTONOSUPPORT
El protocolo especificado no está admitido en esta máquina.
.TP
.B EOPNOSUPPORT
El protocolo especificado no admite la creación de parejas de conectores.
.TP
.B EFAULT
La dirección
.I sv
no especifica una parte válida del espacio de direcciones del proceso.
.SH "CONFORME A"
4.4BSD (la llamada al sistema
.B socketpair
apareció en 4.2BSD). Generalmente transportable a o desde sistemas
no BSD que admitan clónicos de la capa de conectores BSD (incluyendo variantes
System V).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR pipe (2)
