.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:11:53 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Feb 17 16:39:20 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH IPC 2 "17 Febrero 1998" "Linux 1.2.4" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
socketcall \- llamadas al sistema relativas a zócalos
.SH SINOPSIS
.BI "int socketcall(int" " llamada, " "unsigned long *" "args);"
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B socketcall
es un punto de entrada al núcleo común para las llamadas al sistema
relativas a zócalos.
El argumento
.I llamada
determina a qué función de zócalos llamar.
El parámetro
.I args
apunta a un bloque que contiene los argumentos reales, que se pasan
tal cual a la función apropiada.
.PP
Los programas de usuario deberían llamar a las funciones apropiadas
por sus nombres usuales. Solamente los implementadores de la
biblioteca estándar y los buenos programadores del núcleo necesitan
conocer la existencia de
.BR socketcall .
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta llamada es específica de Linux, y no debería emplearse en
programas pretendidamente transportables.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR accept (2),
.BR bind (2),
.BR connect (2),
.BR getpeername (2),
.BR getsockname (2),
.BR getsockopt (2),
.BR listen (2),
.BR recv (2),
.BR recvfrom (2),
.BR send (2),
.BR sendto (2),
.BR setsockopt (2),
.BR shutdown (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR socketpair (2)

