.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:26:24 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)]
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Feb 3 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
. \" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH STIME 2 "3 febrero 1998" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
stime \- pone la hora y fecha
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <time.h>
.sp
.BI "int stime(time_t *" t );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBstime\fP pone la hora y fecha según la idea que el sistema tiene de
ello. La hora/fecha, a la que apunta \fIt\fP, se mide en segundos
transcurridos desde "La Época", las 00:00:00 GMT del 1 de Enero de 1970.
\fBstime()\fP sólo puede ser llamado por el súper-usuario.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
El que llama a la función no es el súper-usuario.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID, X/OPEN
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR date (1)
