.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:02:47 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 15 Apr 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Added reference to `bdflush(2)'.
.\" Modified 960414 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>:
.\"   Added the fact that since 1.3.20 sync actually waits.
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:27:07 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Feb 4 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SYNC 2 "27 octubre 1996" "Linux 1.3.88" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
sync \- entrega el búfer caché al disco
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int sync(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B sync
primero entrega los nodos-í a los búferes, y luego éstos al disco.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B sync
siempre devuelve 0.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH FALLOS
De acuerdo con la especificación del estándar (p. ej., SVID),
\fBsync()\fP planifica las escrituras, pero puede regresar antes de
que la escritura real tenga lugar.
Sin embargo, desde la versión 1.3.20, Linux sí espera realmente.
(Esto aún no garantiza la integridad de los datos: los discos modernos
tienen grandes cachés.)
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR bdflush (2),
.BR fsync (2),
.BR fdatasync (2),
.BR update (8),
.BR sync (8)
