.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Wed Aug  9 1995     Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" FIXME -- I can't find this in SVr4!
.TH SYSFS 2 "9 de Agosto de 1995" "Linux 1.3.16" "Manual del Programador de Linu
x"
.SH NOMBRE
sysfs \- devuelve información sobre el tipo de sistema de ficheros
.SH SINTAXIS
.BI "int sysfs(int " option ", const char * " fsname );

.BI "int sysfs(int " option ", unsigned int " fs_index ", char * " buf );

.BI "int sysfs(int " option );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B sysfs
devuelve información sobre el sistema de ficheros presente en el kernel. La form
a
concreta de la llamada
.B sysfs
y la información devuelta depende de
.I option
eso es:

.TP
.B 1
Traduce la tira que identifica el tipo de sistema de ficheros
.I fsname
en un tipo índice de sistema de ficheros.
.TP
.B 2
Traduce el tipo índice de sistema de ficheros
.I fs_index
en una tira finalizada por un carácter NULL. Esta tira sera escrita
en el buffer apuntado por
.IR buf .
Asegúrese que
.I buf
tiene suficiente espacio para alojar la tira.
.TP
.B 3
Devuelve el numero total de sistemas de ficheros presentes en el kernel.

.PP
El numero de tipos de indices de sistemas de ficheros comienza en cero.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si ha funcionado,
.B sysfs
devuelve el indice del sistema de ficheros para la opcion
.BR 1 ,
cero para la opcion
.BR 2 ,
y en numero de sistemas de ficheros configurados para la opcion
.BR 3 .
Caso de error, \-1 es devuelto y el valor de
.I errno
es fijado apropiadamente.
.SH ERRORES.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I fsname
no es un identificador de sistema de fichero valido.
.I fs_index
esta fuera de rango;
.I option
es invalido.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.RI "O " fsname " o " buf
esta fuera del espacio de direcciones accesible por vd.
.PP
.SH "COMPATIBLE CON"
SVr4.
