.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de)
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:29:17 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 961203 by aeb@cwi.nl
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Feb 6 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH TIMES 2 "6 febrero 1998" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
times \- obtiene los tiempos del proceso
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/times.h>
.sp
.BI "clock_t times(struct tms *" buf );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B times
guarda los tiempos del proceso en curso en el sitio al que apunta 
.IR buf .  

.I struct tms
está definida así en
.IR /usr/include/sys/times.h :
.sp
.nf
struct  tms  {
.in 20
clock_t tms_utime;  /* tiempo de usuario */
clock_t tms_stime;  /* tiempo de sistema */
clock_t tms_cutime; /* t. de usuario del hijo */
clock_t tms_cstime; /* t. de sistema del hijo */
};
.in 10
.fi
.PP
.B times
devuelve el número de pulsos del reloj que han transcurrido desde que
el sistema ha estado en activo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR time (1),
.BR getrusage (2),
.BR wait (2)
