.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 12:51:53 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:39:04 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Thu May  1 06:05:54 UTC 1997 by Nicolás Lichtmaier
.\"  <nick@debian.com> with Lars Wirzenius <liw@iki.fi> suggestion
.\" Traducción por Urko Lusa <ulusa@lacueva.ddns.org> 19980210
.\" Revisado el Sab 2 Oct 1998 por Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH UMASK 2 "9 agosto 1998" "Linux" "Manual del programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
umask \- establece la máscara de creación de ficheros
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.sp
.BI "mode_t umask(mode_t " mask );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B umask
establece la máscara de usuario a
.I mask 
& 0777.

La máscara de usuario es usada por
.BR open (2)
para establecer los permisos iniciales de un fichero recién creado.

Específicamente, los permisos presentes en la máscara se desactivan a partir
del argumento \fBmode\fR de
.BR open (2)
(así pues, por ejemplo, el valor común por defecto de umask, 022,
provoca que los nuevos ficheros se creen con permisos 0666 & ~022 = 0755 =
rw-r--r-- cuando \fBmode\fR vale 0666, que es el caso más normal).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Esta llamada al sistema siempre tiene éxito y devuelve el valor anterior de la
máscara.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, X/OPEN, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR creat (2),
.BR open (2)
