.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified 15 April 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@shell.portal.com>:
.\"   Updated names and version numbers to Linux 1.2.4 / man-pages-1.6.
.\"   Moved unimplemented kernel calls to new man page.
.\"   Created new man page for obsolete calls, so don't talk about them here.
.\"   Removed BUGS as they've been fixed.
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 22 July 1995 by Michael Chastain <mec@duracef.shout.net>:
.\"   Updated for Linux 1.3.6 / man-pages-1.7.
.\" aeb, 950825: all system calls have been documented!
.\" aeb, 960414: this is true again.
.\" Translated 30 Jan 1997 by Juan Piernas Cánovas (piernas@dif.um.es)
.\" Translation revised 17 Aug 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\" Translation revised  2 Oct 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.TH UNDOCUMENTED 2 "12 abril 1996" "Linux 2.0.34" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ningua \- llamadas al sistema sin documentar
.SH SINOPSIS
Llamadas al sistema indocumentadas.
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
A partir de la versión 2.0.34, hay 164 llamadas al sistema listadas en el fichero
.IR /usr/include/asm/unistd.h .
Esta página de manual menciona aquellas llamadas que están implementadas en
el núcleo pero que no se han documentado en una página de manual.
Algunas de estas llamadas todavía no tienen un prototipo en los ficheros
cabecera de libc.
.SH PETICIÓN
Si tiene información sobre estas llamadas al sistema, por favor, mire el
código fuente del núcleo, escriba una página de manual (usando un estilo
similar al de las otras páginas de manual de la sección 2 de Linux) y
envíela a
.B aeb@cwi.nl
para ser incluida en la próxima versión de las páginas de manual del Linux
Documentation Project (Proyecto de Documentación de Linux).
.SH ESTADO
Actualmente, no hay llamadas al sistema sin documentar.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR obsolete (2),
.BR unimplemented (2)
