.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1995 Michael Chastain (mec@shell.portal.com), 15 April 1995.
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Updated, aeb, 980612
.\"
.\" Translated 30 Jan 1997 by Juan Piernas Cánovas (piernas@dif.um.es)
.\" Translation revised Wed Aug 19 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH UNIMPLEMENTED 2 "12 junio 1998" "Linux 2.0" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
afs_syscall, break, ftime, gtty, lock, mpx, phys, prof, profil,
stty, ulimit
\- Llamadas al sistema sin implementar
.SH SINOPSIS
Llamadas al sistema sin implementar.
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Estas llamadas al sistema no están implementadas en la versión 2.0 del
núcleo de Linux.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Estas llamadas al sistema siempre devuelven -1 y asignan a la variable
.I errno
el valor
.BR ENOSYS .
.SH NOTAS
Dése cuenta que
.IR ftime (3),
.IR profil (3)
y
.IR ulimit (3)
se implementan como funciones de biblioteca.

Algunas llamadas al sistema, como
.IR ioperm (2),
.IR iopl (2),
.IR ptrace (2)
y
.IR vm86 (2)
sólo existen en ciertas arquitecturas.

Algunas llamadas al sistema, como
.IR ipc (2)
y
.IR {create,init,delete}_module (2)
sólo existen cuando el núcleo de Linux se construyó con soporte para ellas.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR obsolete (2),
.BR undocumented (2)
