.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:34:48 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 22:59:17 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated  into Spanish Mon Feb 9 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH USELIB 2 "9 febrero 1998" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
uselib \- selecciona biblioteca compartida
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int uselib(const char *" biblioteca );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBuselib\fP selecciona el fichero binario de la  biblioteca
compartida que será empleado por el proceso invocador.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito se devuelve cero. En caso de error se devuelve \-1 y
se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
Además de todos los códigos de error devueltos por
.BR open "(2) y " mmap (2),
también pueden devolverse los siguientes:

.TP
.B ENOEXEC
El fichero especificado por
.I biblioteca
no es ejecutable, o no posee los números mágicos correctos.
.TP
.B EACCES
La biblioteca especificada por
.I biblioteca
no tiene permiso de lectura.
.SH "CONFORME A"
\fBuselib()\fP es específica de Linux, y no debería emplearse en
programas que se pretendan transportables.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR ar (1),
.BR gcc (1),
.BR ld (1),
.BR ldd (1),
.BR mmap (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR ld.so (8)
