.\" Copyright (C) 1995, Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Created   Wed Aug  9 1995      Thomas K. Dyas <tdyas@eden.rutgers.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 23:52:21 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Translated  into Spanish Mon Feb 9 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH USTAT 2 "9 febrero 1998" "Linux 1.3.16" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ustat \- obtiene datos del sistema de ficheros
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.BI "int ustat(dev_t " dev ", struct ustat * " ubuf );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B ustat
devuelve información sobre un sistema de ficheros montado.
.I dev
es un número de dispositivo que identifica a uno que contiene un
sistema de ficheros montado.
.I ubuf
es un puntero a una estructura ustat que contiene los siguientes miembros:

.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 7
.ta 8n 16n 32n
daddr_t	f_tfree;	/* Bloques libres en total */
ino_t	f_tinode;	/* Número de nodos-í libres */
char	f_fname[6];	/* Nombre del sist. de fichs. */
char	f_fpack[6];	/* Nombre del pack del s.f. */
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP

Los dos últimos campos, f_fname y f_fpack, no están implementados y
siempre se rellenarán con caracteres nulos (ceros).

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero y la estructura ustat a la que apunta
.I ubuf
se rellenará. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1 y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I dev
no se refiere a un dispositivo que contiene un sistema de ficheros montado.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I ubuf
apunta afuera del espacio de direcciones accesible.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
EL sistema de ficheros montado referenciado por
.I dev
no admite esta operación, o cualquier versión de Linux anterior a la
1.3.16.
.SH OBSERVACIONES
.B ustat
sólo se proporciona por compatibilidad. Todos los nuevos programas
deberían emplear
.BR statfs (2)
en su lugar.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVr4.  SVr4 documenta condiciones de error adicionales: ENOLINK, ECOMM
y EINTR, pero no tiene la condición ENOSYS.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR statfs (2),
.BR stat (2)

