.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:03:05 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Translated  into Spanish Mon Feb 9 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH UTIME 2 "9 febrero 1998" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
utime, utimes \- cambian los tiempos de acceso o modificación de un nodo-í
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" nombrefichero ", struct utimbuf *" buf );
.sp 2
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(char *" nombrefichero ", struct timeval *" tvp );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B utime
cambia los tiempos de acceso y modificación del nodo-í especificado por
.I nombrefichero
a los campos
.IR actime " y " modtime
de 
.I buf
respectivamente.  Si
.I buf
es
.BR NULL ,
entonces los tiempos de acceso y modificación del fichero se ponen al
tiempo actual. La estructura
.I utimbuf
es:

.RS
.nf
struct utimbuf {
        time_t actime;  /* tiempo de acceso */
        time_t modtime; /* tiempo de modificación */
};
.fi
.RE

En las bibliotecas DLL 4.4.1 de Linux,
.B utimes
es simplemente un envoltorio para
.BR utime :
.IR tvp [0]. tv_sec
es
.IR actime ,
y
.IR tvp [1]. tv_sec
es
.IR modtime .
La estructura
.I timeval
es:

.RS
.nf
struct timeval {
        long    tv_sec;         /* segundos */
        long    tv_usec;        /* microsegundos */
};
.fi
.RE
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito se devuelve cero. En caso de error se devuelve \-1 y
se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
Pueden ocurrir otros errores.

.TP
.B EACCES
Permiso denegado para escribir en el fichero.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.I nombrefichero
no existe.
.SH "CONFORME A"
.BR utime :
SVr4, SVID, POSIX.  SVr4 documenta las condiciones de error adicionales EFAULT,
EINTR, ELOOP, EMULTIHOP, ENAMETOOLONG, ENOLINK, ENOTDIR,
ENOLINK, ENOTDIR, EPERM  y EROFS.
.br
.BR utimes :
BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR stat (2)
