.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Feb 13 16:49:57 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH VHANGUP 2 "13 febrero 1998" "Linux 0.99.11" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
vhangup \- cuelga virtualmente la tty en uso
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B int vhangup(void);
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B vhangup
simula un cuelgue en la terminal en uso. Esta llamada hace que otros
usuarios obtengan una tty \*(lqlimpia\*(rq cuando entren en el sistema.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
El usuario no es el súper-usuario.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta llamada es específica de Linux, y no debería emplearse en
programas que se pretendan transportables.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR init (8)
