.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Copyright 1997 Andries E. Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into Spanish Fri Feb 13 16:49:57 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH VM86 2 "13 febrero 1998" "Linux 2.1.15" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
vm86old, vm86 \- entra en el modo virtual del 8086
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <sys/vm86.h>
.sp
.BI "int vm86old(struct vm86_struct * " info );
.sp
.BI "int vm86(unsigned long " fn ", struct vm86plus_struct * " v86 );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La llamada al sistema
.B vm86
fue introducida en Linux 0.97p2. En Linux 2.1.15 y 2.0.28 se renombró como
.BR vm86old ,
y se introdujo una nueva
.BR vm86 .
La definición de la `struct vm86_struct' se cambió
en 1.1.8 y 1.1.9.
.LP
Estas llamadas hacen que el proceso entre en el modo VM86, y las emplea
.BR dosemu " (" dos (1)).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
En caso de éxito, se devuelve cero. En caso de error, se devuelve \-1
y se pone en
.I errno
un valor apropiado.
.SH ERRORES
(para
.BR vm86old )
.TP
.B EPERM
Existe la pila del núcleo salvaguardada. (Ésta es una comprobación
prudencial del núcleo; la pila salvaguardada sólo existe dentro del
propio modo vm86.)
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta llamada es específica de Linux en procesadores de Intel, y no
debería emplearse en programas pretendidamente transportables.
