.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:46:21 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traducida al castellano (con permiso) por:
.\" Sebastian Desimone (chipy@argenet.com.ar) (desimone@fasta.edu.ar)
.\" Modificado 5 Jul 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Modificado 21 Abril 1998 Rafael Rios (rafarios@arrakis.es)
.\"
.TH ABORT 3  "12 Abril 1993" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
abort \- causa una terminación anormal del programa
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.B void abort(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBabort()\fP causa una terminación anormal a menos que se
capture la señal SIGABORT y el manejador de señales no regrese.  Si la
función \fBabort()\fP causa la terminación de un programa, todos los
canales abiertos se cierran y borran.
.PP
Si se bloquea o ignora la señal SIGABORT, la función \fBabort()\fP
todavía predominará.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBabort()\fP nunca regresa.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VÉASE  TAMBIÉN"
.BR sigaction "(2), " exit (3)
