.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:44:59 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traducido al castellano (con permiso) por:
.\" Sebastian Desimone (chipy@argenet.com.ar) (desimone@fasta.edu.ar)
.\" Modified 5 Jul 1996 Miguel A. Sepulveda (angel@vivaldi.princeton.edu)
.\" Translation revised June 16 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\"
.TH ACOS 3  "8 Junio 1993" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
acos \- función arco coseno
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double acos(double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBacos()\fP calcula el arco coseno de \fIx\fP; éste es el valor
cuyo coseno es \fIx\fP. Si \fIx\fP está fuera del rango \-1 a 1, 
\fBacos()\fP falla y a \fIerrno\fP se le asigna un valor apropiado.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBacos()\fP devuelve el arco coseno en radianes y el valor se
define matemáticamente para estar entre 0 y PI (inclusive).
.SH "ERRORES"
.TP
.B EDOM
\fIx\fP está fuera de rango.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR asin "(3), " atan "(3), " atan2 "(3), " cos "(3), " sin "(3), " tan (3)
