.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:43:44 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traducido al castellano (con permiso) por:
.\" Sebastian Desimone (chipy@argenet.com.ar) (desimone@fasta.edu.ar)
.\" Translation fixed on Mon Apr 20 15:53:46 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\"          Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH ASIN 3  "15 Diciembre 1995" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
asin \- función arco seno
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double asin(double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBasin()\fP calcula el arco seno de \fIx\fP; esto es,
el valor cuyo seno es \fIx\fP.  Si \fIx\fP cae fuera del rango
\-1 a 1, \fBasin()\fP falla y \fIerrno\fP toma un valor apropiado.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBasin()\fP devuelve el arco seno en radianes y el
valor se define matemáticamente para estar entre -PI/2 y PI/2
(incluidos).
.SH "ERRORES"
.TP
.B EDOM
\fIx\fP esta fuera de rango.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR acos "(3), " atan "(3), " atan2 "(3), " cos "(3), " sin "(3), " tan (3)
