.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 21:29:05 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traducido al castellano (con permiso) por:
.\" Sebastian Desimone (chipy@argenet.com.ar) (desimone@fasta.edu.ar)
.\" Revisado Mon Apr 21 11:39:44 1998 por:
.\" Cesar D. Lobejon (cesar@alien.mec.es)            
.TH BYTEORDER 3  "15 Abril 1993" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
htonl, htons, ntohl, ntohs \- convierten valores cuyos bytes se
encuentran en orden de host a valores cuyos bytes se encuentran
en orden de red y viceversa
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netinet/in.h>
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int htonl(unsigned long int " hostlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int htons(unsigned short int " hostshort );
.sp
.BI "unsigned long int ntohl(unsigned long int " netlong );
.sp
.BI "unsigned short int ntohs(unsigned short int " netshort );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBhtonl()\fP convierte el entero largo \fIhostlong\fP
desde el orden de bytes del host al de la red.
.PP
La función \fBhtons()\fP convierte el entero corto \fIhostshort\fP
desde el orden de bytes del host al de la red.
.PP
La función \fBntohl()\fP convierte el entero largo \fInetlong\fP
desde el orden de bytes de la red al del host.
.PP
La función \fBntohs()\fP convierte el entero corto \fInetshort\fP
desde el orden de bytes de la red al del host.
.PP
En los i80x86 en el orden de bytes del host está primero el byte menos
significativo (LSB), mientras que el orden de bytes de la red, tal como se
usa en Internet, tiene primero el byte más significativo (MSB).
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR gethostbyname "(3), " getservent (3)
