.\" Copyright 1995 Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" changed `square root' into `cube root' - aeb, 950919
.\"
.\"
.\" Traducido al castellano (con permiso) por:
.\" Sebastian Desimone (chipy@argenet.com.ar) (desimone@fasta.edu.ar)
.\" Translation fixed on Wed Apr 22 12:52:20 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es> 
.\"
.TH CBRT 3  "16 Septiembre 1995" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
cbrt \- función raíz cúbica
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double cbrt(double " x );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBcbrt()\fP devuelve la raiz cúbica de \fIx\fP.
Esta función no puede fallar;
todo  valor real representable tiene una raiz cúbica real representable.
.SH "CONFORME A"
\fBcbrt\fP es una extensión de GNU.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sqrt "(3), " pow (3)
