.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:51:06 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Traducido al castellano (con permiso) por:
.\" Sebastian Desimone (chipy@argenet.com.ar) (desimone@fasta.edu.ar)
.\" Translation fixed on Thu Apr 23 16:27:38 CEST 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH CTERMID 3  "9 Enero 1995" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ctermid \- obtiene el nombre de la terminal de control
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "char *ctermid(char *" "s" ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B ctermid()
devuelve una cadena que es el camino de la terminal controlador actual
para este proceso.
Si
.I s
es
.BR NULL ,
se emplea un búfer estático; si no,
.I s
apunta a un búfer usado para contener el camino de la terminal.
La constante simbólica
.B L_ctermid
es el máximo número de caracteres del camino devuelto.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
El puntero al camino.
.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX.1
.SH "FALLOS"
El camino devuelto puede no identificar únicamente a la terminal controladora;
ésta puede, por ejemplo, ser
.BR /dev/tty .
.PP
No se garantiza que el programa pueda abrir la terminal.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR ttyname (3)

