.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:42:57 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Aug 14 1995 by Arnt Gulbrandsen <agulbra@troll.no>
.\" Translated Jan 9 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga García 
.\"	<gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.TH EXP 3  "9 de Enero de 1998" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
exp, log, log10, pow \- funciones exponenciales, logarítmicas y potencia
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double exp(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double log(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double log10(double " x );
.sp
.BI "double pow(double " x ", double " y );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBexp()\fP devuelve el valor de e (la base de los
logaritmos naturales) elevado a la potencia \fIx\fP.
.PP
La función \fBlog()\fP devuelve el logaritmo neperiano de \fIx\fP.
.PP
La función \fBlog10()\fP devuelve el logaritmo decimal de \fIx\fP.
.PP
La función \fBpow()\fP devuelve el valor de \fIx\fP elevado a \fIy\fP.
.SH "ERRORES"
Las funciones \fBlog()\fP y \fBlog10()\fP pueden devolver los
siguientes errores:
.TP
.B EDOM
El argumento \fIx\fP es negativo.
.TP
.B ERANGE
El argumento \fIx\fP es cero. El logaritmo de cero no está definido.
.PP
La función \fBpow()\fP puede devolver el siguiente error:
.TP
.B EDOM
El argumento \fIx\fP es negativo e \fIy\fP no es un valor entero.
Esto daría un número complejo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sqrt "(3), " cbrt (3)
