.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fclose.3	6.7 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:19:14 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Translated into Spanish, Mon Jan 12 1998, Gerardo Aburruzaga García
.\" Gerardo.Aburruzaga@uca.es
.\" Translation revised Wed Dec 30 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\" Translation revised Sun Apr  4 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH FCLOSE 3  "12 Enero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
fclose \- cierra un flujo de datos
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fclose( FILE *" flujo );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B fclose
disocia el
.I flujo
especificado de su fichero asociado o conjunto de funciones. Si el
flujo se estuvo empleando para salida, cualesquiera datos tamponados
se escriben antes que nada, empleándose para ello
.BR fflush (3).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Se devuelve 0 en caso de éxito. En otro caso se devuelve
.B EOF
y se pone un valor apropiado en la variable global
.I errno
para indicar el error. En cualquier caso, cualquier acceso posterior al
flujo (incluyendo otra llamada a
.BR fclose "())"
producirá un comportamiento indefinido.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
El argumento
.I flujo
no es un flujo de datos abierto.
.\"  Este error no puede ocurrir a menos que esté mezclando operaciones
.\"  stdio del ANSI C y operaciones de ficheros de bajo nivel sobre el mismo
.\"  flujo. Si recibe este error, debería haber cerrado el descriptor de
.\"  fichero de bajo nivel del flujo usando algo como close(fileno(fp)).
.PP
La función
.B fclose
también puede fallar, y ponerse un valor en 
.I errno
, para cualquiera de los errores especificados para las rutinas
.BR close (2)
o
.BR fflush (3).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR close "(2), " fflush "(3), " fopen "(3), " setbuf (3)
.SH "CONFORME A"
La función
.B fclose
es conforme con ANSI C3.159-1989 (``C ANSI'').
