.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:36:29 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Jan 14 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH FMOD 3  "Miércoles 14 de Enero de 1998" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
fmod \- función resto en coma flotante
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <math.h>
.sp
.BI "double fmod(double " x ", double " y );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función 
.B fmod()
computa el resto de la división de
.I x
entre \fIy\fP. El valor devuelto es \fIx\fP - \fIn\fP * \fIy\fP, donde
\fIn\fP es el cociente de \fIx\fP / \fIy\fP, redondeado a un entero hacia cero.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función
.B fmod()
devuelve el resto, a menos que
.I y
sea cero, en cuyo caso la función falla y 
.I errno
toma un valor apropiado.
.SH "ERRORES"
.TP
.B EDOM
El denominador \fIy\fP es cero.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR drem (3)
