.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" Chris Torek and the American National Standards Committee X3,
.\" on Information Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)fseek.3	6.11 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 15:22:01 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Jan 21 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH FSEEK 3  "21 Enero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
fgetpos, fseek, fsetpos, ftell, rewind \- reposicionarse en un flujo
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int fseek( FILE *" flujo ", long " desplto ", int " origen );
.br
.BI "long ftell( FILE *" flujo );
.br
.BI "void rewind( FILE *" flujo );
.br
.BI "int fgetpos( FILE *" flujo ", fpos_t *" pos );
.br
.BI "int fsetpos( FILE *" flujo ", fpos_t *" pos );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B fseek
mueve el indicador de posición del fichero correspondiente al flujo de
datos apuntado por
.IR flujo .
La nueva posición, medida en bytes, se obtiene añadiendo
.I desplto
bytes a la posición especificada por
.IR origen .
Si
.I origen
es
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_CUR ,
o
.BR SEEK_END ,
el desplazamiento es relativo al comienzo del fichero, a la posición
actual, o al final del fichero, respectivamente. Una llamada exitosa a
la función
.B fseek
limpia el indicador de fin-de-fichero para el flujo y deshace
cualquier efecto de la función
.BR ungetc (3)
en el mismo flujo.
.PP
La función
.B ftell
obtiene el valor actual del indicador de posición del fichero para el
flujo apuntado por
.IR flujo .
.PP
La función
.B rewind
mueve el indicador de posición del fichero para el flujo apuntado por
.I flujo
al principio del fichero. Es equivalente a:
.PP
.RS
(void)fseek(flujo, 0L, SEEK_SET)
.RE
.PP
salvo en que el indicador de error para el flujo también se limpia (vea
.BR clearerr (3)).
.PP
Las funciones
.B fgetpos
y
.B fsetpos
son interfaces alternativas equivalentes a
.B ftell
y
.B fseek
(con el origen puesto a
.BR SEEK_SET ),
poniendo y almacenando el valor actual del desplazamiento desde o en
el objeto referenciado por
.IR pos .
En algunos sistemas no UNIX un objeto
.B fpos_t
puede ser un objeto complejo y estas rutinas pueden ser la única
manera de reposicionar un flujo de texto de forma transportable.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función
.B rewind
no devuelve nada. Cuando acaban bien,
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
y
.B fsetpos
devuelven 0,
y
.B ftell
devuelve el desplazamiento actual. Cuando acaban mal, devuelve \-1 y
se pone un valor apropiado en la variable global errno.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EBADF
El
.I flujo
especificado es tal que no permite el acceso directo.
.TP
.B EINVAL
El argumento
.I origen
de
.B fseek
no era
.BR SEEK_SET ,
.BR SEEK_END ,
ni
.BR SEEK_CUR .
.PP
Las funciones
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR fsetpos ,
y
.B ftell
pueden fallar también y poner un valor en
.I errno
para cualquiera de los errores especificados para las rutinas
.BR fflush (3),
.BR fstat (2),
.BR lseek (2),
y
.BR malloc (3).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR lseek (2)
.SH CONFORME A
Las funciones
.BR fgetpos ,
.BR fsetpos ,
.BR fseek ,
.BR ftell ,
y
.BR rewind
siguen el estándar ANSI C3.159-1989 (``C ANSI'').
