.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de)
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 14:23:14 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sun Oct 18 17:31:43 1998 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed 21 Jan 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised Wed Dec 30 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\" Translation revised Sat Jun 26 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH FTIME 3 "24 Julio 1993" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ftime \- devuelve fecha y hora
.SH SINOPSIS
.B "#include <sys/timeb.h>"
.sp
.BI "int ftime(struct timeb *" pt );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Devuelve la hora y fecha actuales en
.IR pt ,
que se declara como sigue:
.sp
.in +1i
.nf
struct timeb {
	time_t   time;
	unsigned short millitm;
	short    timezone;
	short    dstflag;
};
.fi
.in -1i
.LP
La estructura contiene la fecha desde `la época' en segundos, hasta 1000
milisegundos de precisión, la zona horaria local (medida en minutos
al oeste de Greenwich) y un modificador que, si es distinto de cero, indica
que el periodo de ahorro energético (horario verano/invierno) se aplica
localmente durante la parte apropiada del año.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Esta función siempre devuelve 0.
.SH FALLOS
Bajo libc4 y libc5 el campo millitm es significativo.
Bajo glibc2 es defectuoso y en él se devuelve 0.
En glibc 2.1.1 es correcto de nuevo.
.SH HISTORIA
La función
.I ftime
apareció en 4.2BSD.
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.2
.br
En BSD 4.3, esta llamada está anticuada desde que existe
.BR gettimeofday (2).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR time (2)
