.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions extracted from /usr/include/dirent.h are:
.\"                    Copyright 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" Translated into Spanish Sat Jan 24 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH GETDIRENTRIES 3 "24 Enero 1998" "BSD/MISC" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getdirentries \- obtiene entradas de directorio en un formato
independiente del sistema de ficheros
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #define __USE_BSD
o
.B #define __USE_MISC
.br
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "ssize_t getdirentries(int " fd ", char *" buf ", size_t " nbytes
.BI ", off_t *" pbase );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Lee entradas de directorio del especificado por
.I fd
y las guarda en el sitio apuntado por
.IR buf .
Como mucho se leen
.I nbytes
bytes. La lectura empieza en la posición
.RI * pbase ,
y
.RI * pbase
se actualiza con la nueva posición tras la lectura.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B getdirentries
devuelve el número de bytes leídos o cero cuando llega al final del directorio.
Si ocurre un error, se devuelve \-1 y se pone un valor apropiado en
\fIerrno\fP. 
.SH ERRORES
Vea el código fuente de la biblioteca de Linux para los detalles.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR open "(2), " lseek (2)
