.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)getpass.3	6.5 (Berkeley) 5/21/91
.\"
.\" Converted for Linux, Mon Nov 29 14:41:51 1993, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Corrected incorrect title pointed out by meem@sherilyn.wustl.edu,
.\"   aeb, 961108.
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Jan 28 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH GETPASS 3  "28 enero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getpass \- obtiene una contraseña
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B "char *getpass( const char *" prompt );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función 
.B getpass
muestra un mensaje indicador en la salida estándar de errores, y lee
una contraseña de
.IR /dev/tty .
Si este fichero no es accesible,
.B getpass
lee de la entrada estándar.
.PP
La contraseña puede ser de hasta 128 caracteres de larga, incluyendo
un NUL final. Cualesquier caracteres adicionales y el de nueva-línea
final se descartan.
.PP
.B Getpass
desactiva el eco e inhabilita la generación de señales por caracteres
especiales de la tty (interrupción por Control-C, suspensión por
Control-Z, etc.) mientras está leyendo la contraseña. 
.PP
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B Getpass
devuelve un puntero a la contraseña, una cadena de caracteres acabada
en cero.
.SH FICHEROS
.I /dev/tty
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR crypt (3)
.SH HISTORIA
Una función
.B getpass
apareció en la Versión 7 de UNIX de AT&T.
.SH FALLOS
La función
.B getpass
deja su resultado en un objeto estático interno y devuelve un puntero
a dicho objeto. Llamadas subsecuentes a
.B getpass
modificarán ese mismo objeto.
.PP
El proceso que llama a esta función debería poner a cero todos los
caracteres de la contraseña tan pronto como le fuera posible para
evitar dejar la contraseña sin cifrar visible en el espacio de
direcciones del proceso.

