.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:26:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish Thu Jan 29 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH GETPROTOENT 3 "29 Enero 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getprotoent, getprotobyname, getprotobynumber, setprotoent,
endprotoent \- obtienen una entrada del fichero de protocolos
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <netdb.h>
.sp
.B struct protoent *getprotoent(void);
.sp
.BI "struct protoent *getprotobyname(const char *" nombre );
.sp
.BI "struct protoent *getprotobynumber(int " proto );
.sp
.BI "void setprotoent(int " dejaloabierto );
.sp
.B void endprotoent(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBgetprotoent()\fP lee la siguiente línea del fichero
\fI/etc/protocols\fP y devuelve una estructura \fIprotoent\fP
que contiene los campos de que consta la línea. El fichero
\fI/etc/protocols\fP se abre si es necesario.
.PP
La función \fBgetprotobyname()\fP devuelve una estructura \fIprotoent\fP
para la línea de \fI/etc/protocols\fP que concuerde con
el nombre de protocolo \fInombre\fP.
.PP
La función \fBgetprotobynumber()\fP devuelve una estructura \fIprotoent\fP
para la línea que concuerde con el número de protocolo \fIproto\fP.
.PP
La función \fBsetprotoent()\fP abre y rebobina el fichero
\fI/etc/protocols\fP. Si \fIdejaloabierto\fP es verdad (1), entonces
el fichero no se cerrará entre llamadas a \fBgetprotobyname()\fP
o a \fBgetprotobynumber()\fP.
.PP
La función \fBendprotoent()\fP cierra \fI/etc/protocols\fP.
.PP
La estructura \fIprotoent\fP se define en \fI<netdb.h>\fP así:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ne 5
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct protoent {
	char	*p_name;	/* nombre oficial de protocolo */
	char	**p_aliases;	/* lista de sinónimos */
	int	p_proto;	/* número de protocolo */
}
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Los miembros de la estructura \fIprotoent\fP son:
.TP
.I p_name
El nombre oficial del protocolo.
.TP
.I p_aliases
Una lista terminada en cero de nombres alternos para el protocolo.
.TP
.I p_proto
El número del protocolo.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Las funciones \fBgetprotoent()\fP, \fBgetprotobyname()\fP y
\fBgetprotobynumber()\fP devuelven la estructura
\fIprotoent\fP, o un puntero NULL si ocurre un error o
si se llega al final del fichero.
.SH FICHEROS
.PD 0
.TP
.I /etc/protocols
fichero con los datos de protocolos
.PD
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getservent "(3), " getnetent "(3), " protocols (5)

