.\" (c) 1995 by Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Feb 25 20:43:03 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH GETW 3  "25 Febrero 1998" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
getw, putw \- entrada y salida de palabras (ints)
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdio.h>
.sp
.BI "int getw(FILE *" flujo ");"
.nl
.BI "int putw(int " p ", FILE *" flujo ");"
.nl
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBgetw\fP lee una palabra (esto es, un \fBint\fP) de \fIflujo\fP. Se
suministra por compatibilidad con SVID. Le recomendamos que emplee
\fBfread\fP(3) en su lugar.
.P
\fBputw\fP escribe la palabra \fIp\fP (esto es, un \fBint\fP) en \fIflujo\fP.
Se suministra por compatibilidad con SVID, pero recomendamos el empleo
de \fBfwrite\fP(3) en su lugar.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Normalmente, \fBgetw\fP devuelve la palabra leída, y \fBputw\fP
devuelve la palabra escrita.  En caso de error, ambas devuelven \fBEOF\fP.
.SH FALLOS
El valor devuelto en caso de error es también un valor legítimo para
un dato. Para distinguir entre los dos casos se puede utilizar
\fBferror\fP(3).
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR fread "(3), " fwrite "(3), " ferror "(3), " getc "(3), " putc "(3)

