.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:04:55 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish Mon Mar  2 16:17:41 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH KILLPG 3  "2 Marzo 1998" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
killpg \- envía una señal a todos los miembros de un grupo de proceso.
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp
.BI "int killpg(pid_t " pidgrp ", int " signal ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B killpg()
hace que se envíe la señal
.I signal
a todos los procesos del grupo de procesos
.I pidgrp
o a los procesos del propio grupo de procesos si
.I pidgrp
es igual a cero.
.PP
Es equivalente a
.nf
.sp
.BI kill(- pidgrp , signal );
.fi
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
El valor devuelto es \-1 en caso de error, ó 0 en caso de acabar bien.
.SH ERRORES
Los errores se devuelven en la variable global
.I errno
y pueden ser uno de los siguientes:
.TP
.B EINVAL
para una señal inválida,
.TP
.B ESRCH
para un grupo de procesos que no existe, y
.TP
.B EPERM
si el UID del proceso que hace la llamado no es igual al del proceso
al que se envía la señal, y el UID no es el del súper-usuario.
.SH "CONFORME A"
No se sabe.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR kill "(2), " signal "(2), " signal (7)
