.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 19:01:20 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish Mon Mar  2 16:24:29 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH LOCALECONV 3  "25 Abril 1993" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
localeconv \- obtiene información sobre formateo de cantidades numéricas
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <locale.h>
.sp
.B struct lconv *localeconv(void);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B localeconv()
devuelve un puntero a una
.B struct lconv
para la localización en curso. Esta estructura se define en el fichero
cabecera
.B locale.h
y contiene todos los valores asociados con las categorías de localización
.B LC_NUMERIC
y
.BR LC_MONETARY .
Los programas también pueden hacer uso de las funciones
.B printf()
y
.B strfmom()
que se comportan de acuerdo con la localización actual en uso.
.SH "CONFORME A"
ANSI C y POSIX.1
.SH FALLOS
La familia de funciones
.B printf()
puede respetar o no la localización en curso.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR locale "(1), " localedef "(1), " strcoll "(3), " isalpha (3),
.BR setlocale "(3), " strftime "(3), " locale (7)
