.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\" Copyright 1995 Jim Van Zandt <jrv@vanzandt.mv.com>
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one.
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Corrected prototype and include, aeb, 990927
.\"
.\" Translated 3 Mar 1998 by Vicente Pastor Gómez
.\"	<VPASTORG@santandersupernet.com,vicpastor@hotmail.com>
.\" Translation revised Tue Apr 18 2000 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH LSEARCH 3  "27 septiembre 1999" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
lfind, lsearch \- búsqueda lineal en una matriz.
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <search.h>
.sp
.BI "void *lfind(const void *" key ", const void *" base ", size_t *" nmemb ,
.RS
.BI "size_t " size ", int (*" compar ")(const void *, const void *));
.RE
.sp
.BI "void *lsearch(const void *" key ", void *" base ", size_t *" nmemb ,
.RS
.BI "size_t " size ", int (*" compar ")(const void *, const void *));
.RE
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBlfind()\fP y \fBlsearch()\fP realizan una búsqueda lineal de
\fIkey\fP en la matriz \fIbase\fP que tiene *\fInmemb\fP elementos de
\fIsize\fP bytes cada uno. Se espera que la función de comparación a que
hace referencia \fIcompar\fP tenga dos argumentos que apuntan al objeto
\fIkey\fP y a un miembro de la matriz, en ese orden, y que devuelva cero si
el objeto \fIkey\fP coincide con el miembro de la matriz, y distinto de
cero en cualquier otro caso.
.PP
Si \fBlsearch()\fP no encuentra un elemento coincidente, entonces el objeto
\fIkey\fP es insertado al final de la tabla, y *\fInmemb\fP es incrementado.
.SH "VALOR REGRESADO"
\fBlfind()\fP devuelve un puntero a un miembro coincidente de la matriz, o
\fBNULL\fP si no hubo coincidencias. \fBlsearch()\fP devuelve un puntero a un
miembro coincidente de la matriz, o al nuevo miembro añadido si no hubo
coincidencias.
.\" .SH "CONFORME A"
.\" SVID 3, BSD 4.3
.\" Present in libc since libc-4.6.27.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR bsearch "(3), " hsearch "(3), " tsearch "(3)"

