.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Fri Apr  2 18:41:36 1993, David Metcalfe
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:53:14 1993, Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Traducción por Urko Lusa <ulusa@lacueva.ddns.org> 19980305
.TH ON_EXIT 3  "2 de abril de 1993" "GNU" "Manual del programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
on_exit \- registra una función para ser invocada en la terminación normal de un programa
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int on_exit(void (*" funcion ")(int , void *), void *" param );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBon_exit()\fP registra la \fIfuncion\fP dada para ser invocada
en la terminación normal de un programa, ya sea vía
.BR exit (3)
o vía el valor retornado por la función \fBmain\fP del programa.
A la \fIfuncion\fP se le pasa el parámetro de
.BR exit (3)
y el parámetro \fIparam\fP de \fBon_exit()\fP.
.SH "VALOR REGRESADO"
La función \fBon_exit()\fP devuelve el valor 0 en caso de éxito, o \-1 en
caso contrario.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR exit (3),
.BR atexit (3).
