.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jun 23 01:35:19 1995 Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" (prompted by Bas V. de Bakker <bas@phys.uva.nl>)
.\" Modified Wed Aug 27 18:31:10 1997 Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Translated into Spanish Tue Jan 20 1998 by Gerardo Aburruzaga
.\" García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Corrected (and moved to man3), 980612, aeb.
.\" Translation revised Sat Oct  3 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH PROFIL 3 "27 Agosto 1997" "Linux 2.0" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
profil \- perfil de tiempo de ejecución
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int profil(u_short *" buf ", size_t " tambuf ", size_t " desplto ", u_int " escala );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Esta rutina proporciona un medio para averiguar en qué partes su programa
pasa la mayor parte de su tiempo.
El argumento
.I buf
apunta a
.I tambuf
bytes de memoria. Cada 10 milisegundos virtuales, se examina el contador de
programa del usuario (PC):
se resta
.I desplto
y el resultado se multiplica por
.I escala
y se divide por 65536.
Si el valor resultante es menor que
.I tambuf
la entrada correspondiente de
.I buf
se incrementa.

Si
.I buf
es un puntero nulo, el perfil se desactiva.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Siempre se devuelve cero.
.SH FALLOS
.B profil
no puede emplearse en un programa que también utilice contadores
incrementales \fBITIMER_PROF\fP.

Un verdadero análisis de perfil del núcleo proporciona resultados más exactos.
Libc 4.4 contiene un parche del núcleo que proporciona una llamada al
sistema profil.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR gprof "(1), " setitimer "(2), " signal "(2), " sigaction (2)
