.\" Copyright (C), 1995, Graeme W. Wilford. (Wilf.)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\"
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\"
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Wed Jun 14 16:10:28 BST 1995 Wilf. (G.Wilford@@ee.surrey.ac.uk)
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish Thu Mar  5 17:26:31 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH re_comp 3 "5 Marzo 1998" Linux "GNU"
.SH NOMBRE
re_comp, re_exec \- funciones de expresiones regulares de BSD
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <regex.h>
.sp
.BI "char *re_comp(char *" exreg );
.br
.BI "int re_exec(char *" cadena );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B re_comp
se emplea para compilar la expresión regular terminada en cero
a la que apunte
.IR exreg .
El patrón compilado ocupa un área estática, el búfer del patrón, que
se sobreescribirá en la próxima llamada a
.BR re_comp .
Si
.I exreg
es
.BR NULL ,
no se efectúa ninguna operación y los contenidos del búfer del patrón
no se alteran.

.B re_exec
se usa para saber si la cadena acabada en cero a la que apunte
.I cadena
concuerda con la expresión regular previamente compilada
.IR exreg .
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.B re_comp
devuelve
.B NULL
tras una compilación exitosa de
.I exreg
y en otro caso devuelve un puntero a un mensaje de error apropiado.

.B re_exec
devuelve 1 si hay concordancia, cero si hay un fallo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR regex (7),
.B "GNU regex manual"
