.\" Copyright (C) 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:09:49 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified 11 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 22 July 1996 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Modified 25 July 1997 by Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish Thu Mar  5 17:26:31 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH READDIR 3  "25 Julio 1997" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
readdir \- lee un directorio
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.sp
.B #include <dirent.h>
.sp
.BI "struct dirent *readdir(DIR *" dir );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBreaddir()\fP devuelve un puntero a una estructura dirent
que representa la siguiente entrada de directorio en el flujo de
directorio al que apunte \fIdir\fP.  Devuelve NULL cuando alcanza el
fin-de-fichero o si hay un error.
.PP
Los datos devueltos por \fBreaddir()\fP son sobreescritos por
subsiguientes llamadas a \fBreaddir()\fP para el mismo flujo de directorio.
.PP
La estructura
.I dirent
se define como sigue:
.sp
.RS
.nf
.ta 8n 16n 32n
struct dirent {
        long            d_ino;        /* número i-nodo */
        off_t           d_off;        /* despl. al siguiente dirent */
        unsigned short  d_reclen;     /* long. de este registro */
        unsigned char   d_type;       /* tipo de fichero */
        char            d_name[256];  /* nombre del fichero */
};
.ta
.fi
.RE
.PP
Según POSIX, la estructura
.I dirent
contiene un campo
.I "char d_name[]"
de tamaño no especificado, con 
.B NAME_MAX
caracteres como mucho precediendo al carácter cero terminador.
El empleo de otros campos perjudicará la transportabilidad de sus programas.

.SH FALLOS
El campo
.I d_type
no se implementa a partir de libc6 2.0.4 y siempre devolverá 0 (desconocido).

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBreaddir()\fP devuelve un puntero a una estructura
dirent, o NULL si ocurre un error o se alcanza el fin-de-fichero.
.SH "ERRORES"
.TP
.B EBADF
Descriptor de flujo de directorio inválido \fIdir\fP.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR read "(2), " opendir "(3), " closedir "(3), " rewinddir (3),
.BR seekdir "(3), " telldir "(3), " scandir (3)
