.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 18:20:58 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Fri Feb 14 21:47:50 1997 by Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\" Translated into Spanish Sun Mar  8 21:08:20 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SETENV 3  "8 Marzo 1998" "BSD" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
setenv \- cambia o añade una variable de ambiente
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "int setenv(const char *" nombre ", const char *" valor ", int " sobrescribir );
.sp
.BI "void unsetenv(const char *" nombre );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBsetenv()\fP añade la variable \fInombre\fP al entorno o
ambiente con el valor \fIvalor\fP, si \fInombre\fP no existe ya.
Si \fInombre\fP sí existe ya en el ambiente, entonces
su valor se cambia a \fIvalor\fP si \fIsobrescribir\fP es distinto de cero;
si \fIsobrescribir\fP es cero, entonces el valor de \fInombre\fP no cambia.
.PP
La función \fBunsetenv()\fP borra la variable \fInombre\fP del entorno.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBsetenv()\fP devuelve cero si acaba bien, ó \-1 si no
había bastante espacio en el entorno.
.SH "CONFORME A"
BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR getenv (3),
.BR putenv (3),
.BR environ (5)

