.\" Copyright (c) 1994 Mike Battersby
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by aeb, 960721
.\"
.\" Translated into Spanish Mon Mar  9 10:19:55 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH SIGSETOPS 3 "9 Marzo 1998" "Linux 1.0" "Manual del Programador de Linux"

.SH NOMBRE
sigemptyset, sigfillset, sigaddset, sigdelset, sigismember \-
operaciones POSIX con conjuntos de señales 

.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <signal.h>
.sp 2
.BI "int sigemptyset(sigset_t *" conjunto );
.sp
.BI "int sigfillset(sigset_t *" conjunto );
.sp
.BI "int sigaddset(sigset_t *" conjunto ", int " numse );
.sp
.BI "int sigdelset(sigset_t *" conjunto ", int " numse );
.sp
.BI "int sigismember(const sigset_t *" conjunto ", int " numse );

.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.BR sigsetops (3)
permite la manipulación de conjuntos de señales, según la norma POSIX.
.PP
.B sigemptyset
inicia el conjunto de señales dado por
.I conjunto
al conjunto vacío, con todas las señales fuera del conjunto.
.PP
.B sigfillset
inicia
.I conjunto
al conjunto completo, con todas las señales incluidas en el conjunto.
.PP
.B sigaddset 
y
.B sigdelset
añaden y quitan respectivamente la señal
.I numse
de
.IR conjunto .
.PP
.B sigismember
mira a ver si
.I numse
pertenece a
.I conjunto.

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
.BR sigemptyset ", " sigfullset ", " sigaddset
y
.B sigdelset 
devuelven 0 si acaban bien y \-1 en caso de error.
.PP
.B sigismember
devuelve 1 si
.I numse
es un miembro de
.IR conjunto ,
0 si
.I numse
no lo es, y \-1 en caso de error.

.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I sig
no es una señal válida.

.SH "CONFORME A"
POSIX

.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR sigaction "(2), " sigpending "(2), " sigprocmask "(2), " 
.BR sigsuspend "(2)"
