.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:34 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Mar 11 11:18:39 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\"
.TH STRDUP 3  "11 Marzo 1998" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
strdup \- duplica una cadena de caracteres
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strdup(const char *" s );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBstrdup()\fP devuelve un puntero a una nueva cadena de
caracteres que es un duplicado de la cadena apuntada por \fIs\fP.  La
memoria para la nueva cadena se obtiene automáticamente con
\fBmalloc\fP(3), y puede (y debe) liberarse con \fBfree\fP(3).
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBstrdup()\fP devuelve un puntero a la cadena duplicada, o
NULL si no había bastante memoria.
.SH "ERRORES"
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Memoria insuficiente disponible para alojar la cadena duplicada.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR calloc "(3), " malloc "(3), " realloc "(3), " free (3)
