.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:59:03 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish by Urko Lusa <ulusa@lacueva.ddns.org> 19980313
.\" Translation revised Sat Jun 26 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH STRSIGNAL 3  "8 febrero 1999" "GNU" "Manual del programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
strsignal \- devuelve una cadena que describe una señal
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #define _GNU_SOURCE
.br
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "char *strsignal(int " sig );
.sp
.BI "extern const char * const " sys_siglist [];
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBstrsignal()\fP devuelve una cadena que describe la señal
cuyo número corresponde al parámetro \fIsig\fP. La cadena sólo puede ser
usada hasta la siguiente llamada a \fBstrsignal()\fP.
.PP
El vector \fIsys_siglist\fP guarda las cadenas de descripción de señales
indexadas por número de señal. En lugar de este vector debería usarse la
función \fBstrsignal()\fP siempre que fuera posible.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBstrsignal()\fP devuelve la cadena descriptiva apropiada, o un
mensaje de señal desconocida si el número de señal no es válido.
En algunos sistemas (excepto en Linux) el valor devuelto puede ser un
puntero \fBNULL\fP en vez de un número de señal inválido.
.SH "CONFORME A"
Esta función no es parte de ningún estándar pero se puede encontar en
systemas Linux y otros sistemas UNIX (como en Solaris).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR psignal "(3), " strerror (3)
