.\" Copyright (c) 1990, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" This code is derived from software contributed to Berkeley by
.\" the American National Standards Committee X3, on Information
.\" Processing Systems.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)strtod.3	5.3 (Berkeley) 6/29/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sun Aug 21 17:16:22 1994 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Modified Sat May 04 19:34:31 MET DST 1996 by Michael Haardt (michael@cantor.informatik.rwth-aachen.de)
.\"
.\" Translated 12 Feb 1998 by Vicente Pastor Gómez <VPASTORG@santandersupernet.com , vicpastor@hotmail.com>
.TH STRTOD 3 "4 Mar 1996" "Página Manual BSD" "Funciones de Biblioteca"
.SH NOMBRE
strtod \- convierte una cadena ASCII a doble precisión
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <stdlib.h>
.sp
.BI "double strtod(const char *" nptr ", char **" endptr );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función
.B strtod()
convierte la porción inicial de la cadena a la que apunta
.I nptr
a representación
.BR double .

El formato esperado para la cadena es un espacio inicial opcional, comprobado
por \fIisspace\fP(3), un signo opcional de más (``+'') o menos (``-'') seguido
por una secuencia de dígitos que opcionalmente pueden contener un caracter de
punto decimal, opcionalmente seguido por un exponente. Un exponente consiste en
una ``E'' o ``e'', seguida por un signo opcional de más o menos, seguido por
una secuencia no vacía de dígitos. Si el locale no es "C" o "POSIX", se pueden
usar diferentes formatos.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función
.B strtod
devuelve el valor convertido, si lo hay.

Si
.I endptr
no es
.BR NULL ,
un puntero al caracter tras el último caracter utilizado en la conversión
es almacenado en la posición referenciada por
.IR endptr .

Si no se realizó conversión, se devuelve cero y el valor de
.I nptr
es almacenado en la posición referenciada por
.IR endptr .

Si el valor correcto puede causar desbordamiento, se devuelve
.B HUGE_VAL
positivo o negativo (de acuerdo al signo del valor), y
.B ERANGE
se pone en
.IR errno .
Si el valor correcto puede causar desbordamiento por abajo, se devuelve cero y
.B ERANGE
se pone en
.IR errno .
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B ERANGE
Hubo desbordamiento por arriba o por abajo.
.SH "CONFORME A"
ANSI C
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR atof (3),
.BR atoi (3),
.BR atol (3),
.BR strtol (3),
.BR strtoul (3)
