.\" Copyright 1993 David Metcalfe (david@prism.demon.co.uk)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" References consulted:
.\"     Linux libc source code
.\"     Lewine's _POSIX Programmer's Guide_ (O'Reilly & Associates, 1991)
.\"     386BSD man pages
.\" Modified Sun Jul 25 10:41:28 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated into Spanish Wed Mar 11 17:32:47 CET 1998 by Gerardo
.\" Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised April 27 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\"
.TH STRXFRM 3  "12 Abril 1993" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
strxfrm \- transformación de cadena de caracteres
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <string.h>
.sp
.BI "size_t strxfrm(char *" dest ", const char *" orig ", size_t " n );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
La función \fBstrxfrm()\fP transforma la cadena de caracteres \fIorig\fP a
una forma tal que el resultado de llamar a \fBstrcmp()\fP sobre dos
cadenas que han sido transformadas mediante \fBstrxfrm()\fP es el
mismo que el de llamar a \fBstrcoll()\fP en las dos cadenas antes de
su transformación. Los primeros \fIn\fP caracteres de la cadena
transformada se colocan en \fIdest\fP. La transformación se basa en la
localización en curso para la categoría \fILC_COLLATE\fP.  (Vea
\fBsetlocale\fP(3)). 
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
La función \fBstrxfrm()\fP devuelve el número de bytes requeridos para
guardar la cadena transformada en \fIdest\fP excluyendo el carácter
terminador '\\0'.  Si el valor devuelto es \fIn\fP o más, los
contenidos de \fIdest\fP son indeterminados.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID 3, BSD 4.3, ISO 9899
.SH OBSERVACIONES
En las localizaciones \fI"POSIX"\fP o \fI"C"\fP, \fBstrxfrm()\fP es
equivalente a copiar la cadena con \fBstrncpy()\fP.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR bcmp "(3), " memcmp "(3), " strcasecmp "(3), " strcmp (3),
.BR strcoll "(3), " setlocale (3)
