.\" (c) 1993 by Thomas Koenig (ig25@rz.uni-karlsruhe.de)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\" License.
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:45:39 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.TH TOUPPER 3  "4-Abril-1993" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
toupper, tolower \- convierte letras a mayúsculas o minúsculas
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <ctype.h>
.sp
.BI "int toupper (int " "c" ");"
.nl
.BI "int tolower (int " "c" ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B toupper()
convierte la letra
.I c
a mayúsculas, si es posible.
.PP
.B tolower()
convierte la letra
.I c
a minúsculas, si es posible.
.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
El valor devuelto es la letra "convertida", o
.I c
si no se pudo realizar la conversión.
.SH "CONFORME A"
ANSI - C, BSD 4.3
.SH FALLOS
Hay que tener en cuenta que los detalles de qué es mayúscula o minúscula dependen de cada lengua concreta. [Si sabes traducir esto que viene: c.c.portela@ieee.org] For example, the default
.B """C"""
locale does not know about umlauts, so no conversion is done for them.
.PP
 Del mismo modo, también existen letras minúsculas sin su equivalénte mayúsculo (s "sharp" alemana).
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR isalpha "(3), " setlocale "(3), " locale (7)
