.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Moved to man3, aeb, 980612
.\"
.\" Translated 22 Jul 1998 by Juan José López Mellado (laveneno@hotmail.com)
.\" Translation revised Wed Dec 30 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH ULIMIT 3 "12 Junio 1998" "Linux 2.0" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ulimit \- obtiene y modifica los límites del usuario
.SH SINOPSIS
.B #include <ulimit.h>
.sp
.BI "long ulimit(int " cmd ", long " newlimit );
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Atención: Esta rutina está obsoleta. glibc no proporcionará el fichero de
cabecera. En lugar de ulimit debe usarse getrlimit(2),
setrlimit(2) y sysconf(3).
Para la orden del shell
.BR ulimit ,
vea
.BR bash (1).

La función
.B ulimit
obtendrá o modificará algún límite para el proceso actual.
El argumento
.I cmd
puede tener uno de los siguientes valores.
.TP
.B UL_GETFSIZE 
Devuelve el límite de tamaño de un fichero, en unidades de 
512 bytes.
.TP
.B UL_SETFSIZE
Poner el límite de tamaño de un fichero.
.TP
.B 3
(No implementado en Linux.)
Retorna la dirección máxima posible del segmento de datos.
.TP
.B 4
(Implementado pero sin una constante simbólica asociada.)
Devuelve el máximo número de ficheros que el proceso puede abrir.

.SH "VALOR DEVUELTO"
Si tiene éxito,
.B ulimit
devuelve un valor no negativo.
Si hay error, se devuelve un \-1, y se modifica
.I errno
con el valor correspondiente.
.SH ERRORES
.TP
.B EPERM
Un proceso no root ha intentado incrementar un límite.
.SH "CONFORME A"
SVID.
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR bash (1),
.BR getrlimit (2),
.BR setrlimit (2),
.BR sysconf (3)
