.\" Copyright 1997 Nicolás Lichtmaier <nick@debian.org>
.\" Created Wed Jul  2 23:27:34 ART 1997
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" Added info on availability, aeb, 971207
.\" Translated May 4 1998
.\"
.TH UPDWTMP 3  "2 Julio 1997" "GNU" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
updwtmp, logwtmp \- añade una entrada al fichero wtmp
.SH SINOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <utmp.h>
.sp
.BI "void updwtmp(const char *" wtmp_file ", const struct utmp *" ut ");"
.br
.BI "void logwtmp(const char *" line ", const char *" name ", const char *" host ");"
.fi
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBupdwtmp\fR() añade la estructura utmp
.I ut
al fichero wtmp.
.PP
\fBlogwtmp\fR() crea una estructura utmp utilizando
.IR línea ", " nombre ", " host ","
instante de tiempo actual e identificador del proceso actual.
A continuación, llama a \fBupdwtmp\fR() para añadir la estructura al
fichero wtmp.
.SH DISPONIBILIDAD
Ambas funciones están disponibles bajo glibc2, pero no bajo glibc1 o libc.
Sin embargo, logwtmp() está disponible en la vieja libbsd.
.SH FICHEROS
.I /var/log/wtmp
\	base de datos de anteriores inicios de sesión de usuario
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR utmp "(5)"
