.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)swapon.8	6.3 (Berkeley) 3/16/91
.\"
.\" Sun Dec 27 12:31:30 1992: Modified by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Mar  6 20:46:02 1993: Modified by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Oct  9 09:35:30 1993: Converted to man format by faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Sat Nov 27 20:22:42 1993: Updated authorship information, faith@cs.unc.edu
.\" Mon Sep 25 14:12:38 1995: Added -v and -p information
.\" Tue Apr 30 03:32:07 1996: Added some text from A. Koppenhoefer
.\" Wed Aug 26 16:13:43 1998: Translated into Spanish by Gerardo
.\"                           Aburruzaga García <gerardo@cica.es>
.\"
.TH SWAPON 8 "25 Septiembre 1995" "Linux 1.x" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
swapon, swapoff \- (des)habilita dispositivos o ficheros para el
paginado y el trasiego
.SH SINOPSIS
.B /sbin/swapon [\-h \-V]
.br
.B /sbin/swapon \-a [\-v]
.br
.BI "/sbin/swapon [\-v] [\-p " "prioridad" "] " " fichero-especial " ...
.br
.B /sbin/swapon [\-s]
.br
.B /sbin/swapoff [\-h \-V]
.br
.B /sbin/swapoff \-a
.br
.BI /sbin/swapoff " fichero-especial " ...
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
.B Swapon
se emplea para especificar dispositivos sobre los cuales van a tener
lugar las actividades de paginado y trasiego.
Las llamadas a
.B swapon
se hacen normalmente en el fichero de inicio del sistema en modo
multi-usuario, normalmente
.IR /etc/rc ,
haciendo ahí que todos los dispositivos de trasiego estén disponibles,
de modo que las actividades de paginado y trasiego se intercalen entre
varios dispositivos o ficheros.

Normalmente, se emplea la primera forma:
.TP
.B \-h
Proporciona ayuda.
.TP
.B \-V
Muestra la versión.
.TP
.B \-s
Muestra un sumario del uso del trasiego por dispositivo.
.TP
.B \-a
Se hacen disponibles para el trasiego todos los dispositivos marcados
con ``sw'', de tipo `swap', en el fichero
.IR /etc/fstab .
.TP
.BI \-p " prioridad"
Especifica la prioridad para
.BR swapon .
Esta opción sólo está disponible si
.B swapon
se ha compilado y se está usando bajo un núcleo 1.3.2 ó superior.
.I prioridad
es un valor entre 0 y 32767. Vea
.BR swapon (2)
para una descripción completa de las prioridades de trasiego. Añada
.BI pri= valor
al campo de opciones de
.I /etc/fstab
para el empleo con
.BR "swapon -a" .
.PP
.B Swapoff
deshabilita el trasiego en los dispositivos o ficheros especificados,
o en todas las entradas de tipo `swap' de
.I /etc/fstab
cuando se da la opción
.BR \-a .
.SH VÉASE TAMBIÉN
.BR swapon "(2), " swapoff "(2), " fstab "(5), " init "(8), " mkswap (8),
.BR rc "(8), " mount (8)
.SH FICHEROS
.I /dev/hd??
dispositivos estándar de paginación.
.br
.I /dev/sd??
dispositivos estándar (SCSI) de paginación.
.br
.I /etc/fstab
tabla ASCII de descripción estática de los sistemas de ficheros.
.SH HISTORIA
La orden
.B swapon
apareció en 4.0BSD.
.SH AUTORES
Vea la página del Manual de Linux
.BR mount (8)
para una lista completa de autores. Entre los principales
contribuyentes se incluyen Doug Quale, H. J. Lu, Rick Sladkey y
Stephen Tweedie.
