.\" man2/sched_setaffinity.2 - sched_setaffinity and sched_getaffinity man page
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 2002 Robert Love
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" 19 Nov 2002	Robert Love <rml@tech9.net>
.\" 		initial version
.\"
.TH SCHED_SETAFFINITY 2 2002-11-19 "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
sched_setaffinity, sched_getaffinity \- set and get a process's CPU affinity
mask
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sched.h>
.sp
\fBint sched_setaffinity(pid_t \fIpid\fB, unsigned int \fIlen\fB, unsigned long *\fImask\fB);
.sp
\fBint sched_getaffinity(pid_t \fIpid\fB, unsigned int \fIlen\fB, unsigned long *\fImask\fB);

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B sched_setaffinity
sets the CPU affinity mask of the process denoted by
.IR pid .
If
.I pid
is zero, then the current process is used.
.sp
The affinity mask is represented by the bitmask stored in
.IR mask .
The least significant bit corresponds to the first logical processor number on
the system, while the most significant bit corresponds to the last logical
processor number on the system.  A set bit corresponds to a legally schedulable
CPU while an unset bit corresponds to an illegally schedulable CPU.  In other
words, a process is bound to and will only run on processors whose
corresponding bit is set.  Usually, all bits in the mask are set.
.sp
The argument
.I len
is the length of the data pointed to by
.IR mask .
Normally this is the size of a word on the system.  For compatibility with
future versions of the Linux kernel, since this size can change, the bitmask
supplied must be at least as large as the affinity mask stored in the kernel.
.sp
The function
.B sched_getaffinity
writes into the pointer supplied by
.I mask
that is size
.I len
the affinity mask of process
.IR pid .
If
.I pid
is zero, then the mask of the current process is returned.

.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success,
.BR sched_setaffinity
and
.BR sched_getaffinity
both return 0.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.

.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EFAULT
A supplied memory address was invalid.
.TP
.B ESRCH
The process whose ID is \fIpid\fR could not be found.
.TP
.B EPERM
The calling process does not have appropriate privileges. The process
calling
.BR sched_setaffinity
needs an effective uid equal to the euid or uid of the process
identified by
.IR pid ,
or it posses the
.IR CAP_SYS_NICE
capability.
.TP
.B EINVAL
The affinity bitmask 
.I mask
contains no processors that are physically on the system or the length
.I len
is smaller than the size of the affinity mask used by the kernel.
.SH "HISTORY"
The affinity syscalls were introduced in Linux kernel 2.5.8.

.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sched_setscheduler (2),
.BR sched_getscheduler (2),
.BR sched_get_priority_max (2),
.BR sched_get_priority_min (2),
.BR nice (2),
.BR setpriority (2),
.BR getpriority (2),
.PP
.BR sched_setscheduler (2)
has a description of the Linux scheduling scheme.
