.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Luigi P. Bai (lpb@softint.com) July 28, 1993
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Wed Jul 28 11:03:24 1993, Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Sun Nov 28 16:43:30 1993, Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\"          with material from Giorgio Ciucci <giorgio@crcc.it>
.\" Portions Copyright 1993 Giorgio Ciucci <giorgio@crcc.it>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 17:24:31 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Sun Feb 18 01:59:29 2001 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\" Modified 5 Jan 2002 Michael Kerrisk <mtk16@ext.canterbury.ac.nz>
.\"
.TH SHMCTL 2 2002-01-05 "Linux 2.4.1" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
shmctl \- shared memory control
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.B #include <sys/ipc.h>
.sp
.B #include <sys/shm.h>
.sp
.BI "int shmctl(int " shmid ", int " cmd ", struct shmid_ds *" buf );
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBshmctl()\fP
allows the user to receive information on a shared memory segment,
set the owner, group, and permissions of a shared memory segment,
or destroy a segment. The information about the segment identified by
\fIshmid\fP is returned in a \fIshmid_ds\fP
structure:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct shmid_ds {
    struct ipc_perm shm_perm;  /* operation perms */
    int shm_segsz;             /* size of segment (bytes) */
    time_t shm_atime;          /* last attach time */
    time_t shm_dtime;          /* last detach time */
    time_t shm_ctime;          /* last change time */
    unsigned short shm_cpid;   /* pid of creator */
    unsigned short shm_lpid;   /* pid of last operator */
    short shm_nattch;          /* no. of current attaches */
    ...
};
.fi
.in -4n
.PP
The highlighted fields in the member \fIshm_perm\fP can be set:
.PP
.in +4n
.nf
struct ipc_perm {
    key_t  key;
    \fBushort uid\fP;   /* \fBowner\fP euid and egid */
    \fBushort gid\fP;
    ushort cuid;  /* creator euid and egid */
    ushort cgid;
    \fBushort mode\fP;  /* lower 9 bits of access modes */
    ushort seq;   /* sequence number */
};
.fi
.in -4n
.PP
The following \fIcmds\fP are available:
.br
.TP 12
.B IPC_STAT
is used to copy the information about the shared memory segment into
the buffer \fIbuf\fP. The user must have \fBread\fP access to the
shared memory segment.
.TP
.B IPC_SET
is used to apply the changes the user has made to the \fIuid\fP, \fIgid\fP,
or \fImode\fP members of the \fIshm_perms\fP field.  Only the lowest 9 bits
of \fImode\fP are used.  The
.I shm_ctime
member is also updated.  The user must be the owner, creator, or the
super-user.
.TP
.B IPC_RMID
is used to mark the segment as destroyed. It will actually be destroyed
after the last detach.  (I.e., when the
.I shm_nattch
member of the associated structure
.I shmid_ds
is zero.)  The user must be the owner, creator, or the super-user.
.PP
The user \fImust\fP ensure that a segment is eventually destroyed; otherwise
its pages that were faulted in will remain in memory or swap.
.PP
In addition, the \fBsuper-user\fP can prevent or allow swapping of a shared
memory segment with the following \fIcmds\fP: (Linux only)
.br
.TP 12
.B SHM_LOCK
prevents swapping of a shared memory segment. The user must fault in
any pages that are required to be present after locking is enabled.
.TP
.B SHM_UNLOCK
allows the shared memory segment to be swapped out.
.PP
The
.BR IPC_INFO ,
.BR SHM_STAT
and
.B SHM_INFO
control calls are used by the
.BR ipcs (8)
program to provide information on allocated resources.  In the future,
these may be modified as needed or moved to a proc file system interface.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
0 is returned on success, \-1 on error.
.SH ERRORS
On error,
.B errno
will be set to one of the following:
.TP 12
.B EACCES
is returned if \fBIPC_STAT\fP is requested and
\fIshm_perm.modes\fP does not allow read access for
.IR shmid .
.TP
.B EFAULT
The argument
.I cmd
has value
.B IPC_SET
or
.B IPC_STAT
but the address pointed to by
.I buf
isn't accessible.
.TP
.B EINVAL
is returned if \fIshmid\fP is not a valid identifier, or \fIcmd\fP
is not a valid command.
.TP
.B EIDRM
is returned if \fIshmid\fP points to a removed identifier.
.TP
.B EPERM
is returned if \fBIPC_SET\fP or \fBIPC_RMID\fP is attempted, and the
effective user ID of the calling process is not the creator
(as found in
.IR shm_perm.cuid ),
the owner
(as found in
.IR shm_perm.uid ),
or the super-user.
.TP
.B EOVERFLOW
is returned if \fBIPC_STAT\fP is attempted, and the gid or uid value
is too large to be stored in the structure pointed to by
.IR buf . 
.SH NOTE
Various fields in a \fIstruct shmid_ds\fP were shorts under Linux 2.2
and have become longs under Linux 2.4. To take advantage of this,
a recompilation under glibc-2.1.91 or later should suffice.
(The kernel distinguishes old and new calls by a IPC_64 flag in
.IR cmd .)
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4, SVID.  SVr4 documents additional error conditions EINVAL,
ENOENT, ENOSPC, ENOMEM, EEXIST.  Neither SVr4 nor SVID documents
an EIDRM error condition.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR shmget (2),
.BR shmop (2)
