.\" Copyright (c) 1989, 1991 The Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"	@(#)statfs.2	6.5 (Berkeley) 7/23/91
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 11:27:31 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.TH STATFS 2 1997-08-21 "Linux 2.0.30" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
statfs, fstatfs \- get file system statistics
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/vfs.h>
.sp
.BI "int statfs(const char *" path ", struct statfs *" buf );
.br
.BI "int fstatfs(int " fd ", struct statfs *" buf );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B statfs
returns information about a mounted file system.
.I path
is the path name of any file within the mounted filesystem.
.I buf
is a pointer to a
.I statfs
structure defined as follows:

.RS
.nf
struct statfs {
   long    f_type;     /* type of filesystem (see below) */
   long    f_bsize;    /* optimal transfer block size */
   long    f_blocks;   /* total data blocks in file system */
   long    f_bfree;    /* free blocks in fs */
   long    f_bavail;   /* free blocks avail to non-superuser */
   long    f_files;    /* total file nodes in file system */
   long    f_ffree;    /* free file nodes in fs */
   fsid_t  f_fsid;     /* file system id */
   long    f_namelen;  /* maximum length of filenames */
   long    f_spare[6]; /* spare for later */
};

File system types:

linux/affs_fs.h:
   AFFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0xADFF
linux/efs_fs.h:
   EFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x00414A53
linux/ext_fs.h:
   EXT_SUPER_MAGIC       0x137D
linux/ext2_fs.h:
   EXT2_OLD_SUPER_MAGIC  0xEF51
   EXT2_SUPER_MAGIC      0xEF53
linux/hpfs_fs.h:
   HPFS_SUPER_MAGIC      0xF995E849
linux/iso_fs.h:
   ISOFS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x9660
linux/minix_fs.h:
   MINIX_SUPER_MAGIC     0x137F /* orig. minix */
   MINIX_SUPER_MAGIC2    0x138F /* 30 char minix */
   MINIX2_SUPER_MAGIC    0x2468 /* minix V2 */
   MINIX2_SUPER_MAGIC2   0x2478 /* minix V2, 30 char names */
linux/msdos_fs.h:
   MSDOS_SUPER_MAGIC     0x4d44
linux/ncp_fs.h:
   NCP_SUPER_MAGIC       0x564c
linux/nfs_fs.h:
   NFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x6969
linux/proc_fs.h:
   PROC_SUPER_MAGIC      0x9fa0
linux/smb_fs.h:
   SMB_SUPER_MAGIC       0x517B
linux/sysv_fs.h:
   XENIX_SUPER_MAGIC     0x012FF7B4
   SYSV4_SUPER_MAGIC     0x012FF7B5
   SYSV2_SUPER_MAGIC     0x012FF7B6
   COH_SUPER_MAGIC       0x012FF7B7
linux/ufs_fs.h:
   UFS_MAGIC             0x00011954
linux/xfs_fs.h:
   XFS_SUPER_MAGIC       0x58465342
linux/xia_fs.h:
   _XIAFS_SUPER_MAGIC    0x012FD16D
.fi
.RE
.PP
Nobody knows what
.I f_fsid
is supposed to contain (but see below).
.PP
Fields that are undefined for a particular file system are set to 0.
.B fstatfs
returns the same information about an open file referenced by descriptor
.IR fd .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
For
.BR statfs :
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component of the path prefix of
.I path
is not a directory.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.I path
is too long.
.TP
.B ENOENT
The file referred to by
.I path
does not exist.
.TP
.B EACCES
Search permission is denied for a component of the path prefix of
.IR path .
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in translating
.IR path .
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I Buf
or
.I path
points to an invalid address.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The filesystem
.I path
is on does not support
.BR statfs .
.PP
For
.BR fstatfs :
.TP
.B EBADF
.I fd
is not a valid open file descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I buf
points to an invalid address.
.TP
.B EIO
An I/O error occurred while reading from or writing to the file
system.
.TP
.B ENOSYS
The filesystem
.I fd
is open on does not support
.BR statfs .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
The Linux
.B statfs
was inspired by the 4.4BSD one
(but they do not use the same structure).
.SS f_fsid
Solaris and POSIX 1003.1-2001 have a system call
.I statvfs
that returns a
.B "struct statvfs"
(defined in
.IR "<sys/statvfs.h>" )
containing an
.B "unsigned long"
.IR f_fsid .
Linux, SunOS, HPUX, 4.4BSD have a system call
.I statfs
that returns a
.B "struct statfs"
(defined in
.IR "<sys/vfs.h>" )
containing a
.B fsid_t
.IR f_fsid ,
where
.I fsid_t
is defined as
.BR "struct { int val[2]; }" .
The same holds for FreeBSD, except that it uses the include file
.IR "<sys/mount.h>" .

The general idea is that
.I f_fsid
contains some random stuff such that the pair
.RI ( f_fsid , ino )
uniquely determines a file.
Some OSes use (a variation on) the device number, or the device number
combined with the filesystem type.
Several OSes restrict giving out the
.I f_fsid
field to the superuser only (and zero it for nonprivileged users),
because this field is used in the filehandle of the filesystem
when NFS-exported, and giving it out is a security concern.
.LP
Under some OSes the
.I fsid
can be used as second parameter to the
.I sysfs()
system call.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stat (2)
