.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 2003 Abhijit Menon-Sen <ams@wiw.org>
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH TKILL 2 "2003-02-01" "Linux 2.4.20" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
tkill \- send a signal to a single process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <linux/unistd.h>
.sp
.B "_syscall2(int, tkill, pid_t, tid, int, sig)"
.sp
.B int tkill(pid_t tid, int sig);
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
The \fBtkill\fP system call is analogous to
.BR kill (2),
except when the specified process is part of a thread group
(created by specifying the CLONE_THREAD flag in the call to clone).
Since all the processes in a thread group have the same PID,
they cannot be individually signalled with \fBkill\fP.
With \fBtkill\fP, however, one can address each process
by its unique TID.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned. On error, \-1 is returned, and \fIerrno\fP
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
An invalid TID or signal was specified.
.TP
.B ESRCH
No process with the specified TID exists.
.TP
.B EPERM
The caller did not have permission to send the signal to the specified
process. For a process to be allowed to send a signal, it must either
have root privileges, or its real or effective user ID must be equal to
the real or saved set-user-ID of the receiving process.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
\fBtkill\fP is Linux specific and should not be used in programs that
are intended to be portable.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gettid (2),
.BR kill (2)
