.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt
.\" (michael@moria.de),
.\" Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Jul 22 14:00:08 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Aug 10 1993 by Alan Cox <iiitac@pyramid.swansea.ac.uk>
.\" Modified Wed Nov 4  1998 by Tigran Aivazian <tigran@sco.com>
.\"
.TH ACCT 2 "4 November 1998" "Linux 2.1.126" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
acct \- switch process accounting on or off
.SH SYNOPSIS
.ad l
.nf
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int acct(const char *" filename );
.fi
.ad b
.SH DESCRIPTION
When called with the name of an existing file as argument, accounting is
turned on, records for each terminating process are appended to
\fIfilename\fP as it terminates.  An argument of \fBNULL\fP causes
accounting to be turned off.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B ENOSYS
BSD process accounting has not been enabled when the operating system
kernel was compiled.
The kernel configuration parameter controlling this feature is
CONFIG_BSD_PROCESS_ACCT.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Out of memory.
.TP
.B EPERM
The calling process has no permission to enable process accounting.
.TP
.B EACCESS
The argument
.I filename
is not a regular file.
.TP
.B EIO
Error writing to the file
.IR filename .
.TP
.B EUSERS
There are no more free file structures or we run out of memory.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4 (but not POSIX).  SVr4 documents EACCES, EBUSY, EFAULT,
ELOOP, ENAMETOOLONG, ENOTDIR, ENOENT, EPERM and EROFS error
conditions, but no ENOSYS.
.SH NOTES
No accounting is produced for programs running when a crash occurs.  In
particular, nonterminating processes are never accounted for.


