.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH GETDOMAINNAME 2 "22 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getdomainname, setdomainname \- get/set domain name
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int getdomainname(char *" name ", size_t " len );
.br
.BI "int setdomainname(const char *" name ", size_t " len );
.SH DESCRIPTION
These functions are used to access or to change the domain name of the
current processor.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
For
.BR getdomainname ,
.I name
points to
.B NULL
or
.I name
is longer than
.IR len .
.TP
.B EPERM
For
.BR setdomainname ,
the caller was not the superuser.
.TP
.B EINVAL
For
.BR setdomainname ,
.I len
was too long.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
POSIX does not specify these calls.
.SH BUGS
.B getdomainname
is not compliant with other implementations, since they always return
.I len
bytes, even if
.I name
is longer.  Linux, however, returns
.B EINVAL
in this case (as of DLL 4.4.1 libraries).
.SH NOTES
Under Linux,
.B getdomainname
is implemented at the library level by calling
.BR uname (2).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR gethostname (2),
.BR sethostname (2),
.BR uname (2)
