.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright 1993 Rickard E. Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Portions from /usr/include/unistd.h are
.\"               Copyright (C) 1991, 1992 Free Software Foundation, Inc.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.TH GETPAGESIZE 2 "23 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.11" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getpagesize \- get system page size
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.B size_t getpagesize(void);
.SH DESCRIPTION
Return the number of bytes in a page.  This is the system's page size,
which is not necessarily the same as the hardware page size.
.SH NOTES
.B getpagesize
is implemented as a library function in DLL 4.4.1.  Depending on what is
defined when the library is compiled, this function returns
.B EXEC_PAGESIZE
(set to 4096 in Linux 0.99.11),
.B NBPG
(set to 4096 in Linux 0.99.11), or
.B NBPC
(not defined in Linux 0.99.11 or DLL 4.4.1 libraries).
.SH CONFORMING TO
SVr4, 4.4BSD (this call first appeared in 4.2BSD).
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR sbrk (2)
