.\" Copyright (C) 1996 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Oct 31 14:18:40 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@y\thyrsus.com>
.TH GETSID 2 "11 April 1996" "Linux 1.3.85" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
getsid \- get session ID
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "pid_t getsid(pid_t" " pid" );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B getsid(0)
returns the session ID of the calling process.
.BI getsid( p )
returns the session ID of the process with process ID
.IR p .
.SH ERRORS
On error, \-1 will be returned.  The only error which can happen is
.BR ESRCH ,
when no process with process ID
.I p
was found.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4, which documents an additional EPERM error condition.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR setsid (2)
