.\" Copyright (c) 1980, 1991 Regents of the University of California.
.\" All rights reserved.
.\"
.\" Redistribution and use in source and binary forms, with or without
.\" modification, are permitted provided that the following conditions
.\" are met:
.\" 1. Redistributions of source code must retain the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer.
.\" 2. Redistributions in binary form must reproduce the above copyright
.\"    notice, this list of conditions and the following disclaimer in the
.\"    documentation and/or other materials provided with the distribution.
.\" 3. All advertising materials mentioning features or use of this software
.\"    must display the following acknowledgement:
.\"	This product includes software developed by the University of
.\"	California, Berkeley and its contributors.
.\" 4. Neither the name of the University nor the names of its contributors
.\"    may be used to endorse or promote products derived from this software
.\"    without specific prior written permission.
.\"
.\" THIS SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED BY THE REGENTS AND CONTRIBUTORS ``AS IS'' AND
.\" ANY EXPRESS OR IMPLIED WARRANTIES, INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, THE
.\" IMPLIED WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY AND FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE
.\" ARE DISCLAIMED.  IN NO EVENT SHALL THE REGENTS OR CONTRIBUTORS BE LIABLE
.\" FOR ANY DIRECT, INDIRECT, INCIDENTAL, SPECIAL, EXEMPLARY, OR CONSEQUENTIAL
.\" DAMAGES (INCLUDING, BUT NOT LIMITED TO, PROCUREMENT OF SUBSTITUTE GOODS
.\" OR SERVICES; LOSS OF USE, DATA, OR PROFITS; OR BUSINESS INTERRUPTION)
.\" HOWEVER CAUSED AND ON ANY THEORY OF LIABILITY, WHETHER IN CONTRACT, STRICT
.\" LIABILITY, OR TORT (INCLUDING NEGLIGENCE OR OTHERWISE) ARISING IN ANY WAY
.\" OUT OF THE USE OF THIS SOFTWARE, EVEN IF ADVISED OF THE POSSIBILITY OF
.\" SUCH DAMAGE.
.\"
.\"     @(#)ioctl.2	6.4 (Berkeley) 3/10/91
.\"
.\" Modified Fri Jul 23 21:38:19 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Tue Oct 22 00:22:35 EDT 1996 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\" Modified Fri Jun 25 23:51:39 BST 1999 by Rachael Munns <vashti@dream.org.uk>
.\"
.TH IOCTL 2 "23 July 1993" "BSD Man Page" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
ioctl \- control device
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/ioctl.h>
.sp
.BI "int ioctl(int " d ", int " request ", ...)"
.sp
[The "third" argument is traditionally \fBchar *\fIargp\fR, and will be so
named for this discussion.]
.SH DESCRIPTION
The
.B ioctl
function manipulates the underlying device parameters of special files.  In
particular, many operating characteristics of character special files
(e.g. terminals) may be controlled with
.B ioctl
requests.  The argument
.I d
must be an open file descriptor.

An ioctl
.I request
has encoded in it whether the argument is an
.I in
parameter or
.I out
parameter, and the size of the argument
.I argp
in bytes.  Macros and defines used in specifying an ioctl
.I request
are located in the file
.IR <sys/ioctl.h> .
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP 0.7i
.B EBADF
.I d
is not a valid descriptor.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.I argp
references an inaccessible memory area.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
.I d
is not associated with a character special device.
.TP
.B ENOTTY
The specified request does not apply to the kind of object that the
descriptor
.I d
references.
.TP
.B EINVAL
.I Request
or
.I argp
is not valid.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
No single standard.  Arguments, returns, and semantics of
.BR ioctl (2) 
vary according to the device driver in question (the call is used as a
catch-all for operations that don't cleanly fit the Unix stream I/O
model). See 
.BR ioctl_list (2)
for a list of many of the known 
.B ioctl
calls.  The
.B ioctl
function call appeared in Version 7 AT&T Unix.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR execve (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR mt (4),
.BR sd (4),
.BR tty (4)
