.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt
.\"                               1993,1994 Ian Jackson.
.\" You may distribute it under the terms of the GNU General
.\" Public Licence. It comes with NO WARRANTY.
.\"
.TH MKDIR 2 "29 March 1994" "Linux 1.0" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
mkdir \- create a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.nf
.B #include <sys/stat.h>
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.B #include <fcntl.h>
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int mkdir(const char *" pathname ", mode_t " mode );
.fi
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B mkdir
attempts to create a directory named
.IR pathname .

.I mode
specifies the permissions to use. It is modified by the process's
.BR umask
in the usual way: the permissions of the created file are
.BR "(mode & ~umask)" .

The newly created directory will be owned by the effective uid of the
process.  If the directory containing the file has the set group id
bit set, or if the filesystem is mounted with BSD group semantics, the
new directory will inherit the group ownership from its parent;
otherwise it will be owned by the effective gid of the process.

If the parent directory has the set group id bit set then so will the
newly created directory.

.SH RETURN VALUE
.BR mkdir
returns zero on success, or -1 if an error occurred (in which case,
.I errno
is set appropriately).
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EEXIST
.I pathname
already exists (not necessarily as a directory).
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR pathname " points outside your accessible address space."
.TP
.B EACCES
The parent directory does not allow write permission to the process,
or one of the directories in
.IR pathname
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR pathname " was too long."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A directory component in
.I pathname
does not exist or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
A component used as a directory in
.I pathname
is not, in fact, a directory.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B EROFS
.I pathname
refers to a file on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.IR pathname .
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The device containing
.I pathname
has no room for the new directory.
.TP
.B ENOSPC
The new directory cannot be created because the user's disk quota is
exhausted.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4, POSIX, BSD, SYSV, X/OPEN.  SVr4 documents additional EIO, EMULTIHOP
and ENOLINK error conditions; POSIX.1 omits ELOOP.
.PP
There are many infelicities in the protocol underlying NFS.  Some
of these affect
.BR mkdir .
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR read (2),
.BR write (2),
.BR fcntl (2),
.BR close (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR open (2),
.BR mknod (2),
.BR stat (2),
.BR umask (2),
.BR mount (2),
.BR socket (2),
.BR fopen (3)
