.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Thu Nov 11 04:19:42 MET 1999, aeb: added PR_GET_PDEATHSIG
.\"
.TH PRCTL 2 "3 February 1998" "Linux 2.3.15" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
prctl \- operations on a process
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <linux/prctl.h>
.sp
.BI "int prctl(int " option ", unsigned long " arg2 ", unsigned long " arg3
.BI ", unsigned long " arg4 ", unsigned long " arg5 );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B prctl
is called with a first argument describing what to do
(with values defined in <\fIlinux/prctl.h\fP>), and further
parameters with a significance depending on the first one.
The first argument can be:
.TP
.B PR_SET_PDEATHSIG
(since Linux 2.1.57)
Set the parent process death signal
of the current process to \fIarg2\fP (either a signal value
in the range 1..maxsig, or 0 to clear).
This is the signal that the current process will get when its
parent dies. This value is cleared upon a fork().
.TP
.B PR_GET_PDEATHSIG
(since Linux 2.3.15)
Read the current value of the parent process death signal
into the (int *) \fIarg2\fP.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.
On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EINVAL
The value of
.I option
is not recognized, or it is
.B PR_SET_PDEATHSIG
and
.I arg2
is not zero or a signal number.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
This call is Linux-specific.
IRIX has a prctl system call (also introduced in Linux 2.1.44
as irix_prctl on the MIPS architecture),
with prototype
.sp
.BI "ptrdiff_t prctl(int " option ", int " arg2 ", int " arg3 );
.sp
and options to get the maximum number of processes per user,
get the maximum number of processors the calling process can use,
find out whether a specified process is currently blocked,
get or set the maximum stack size, etc., etc.
.SH AVAILABILITY
The prctl() systemcall was introduced in Linux 2.1.57.
There is no prctl() library call as yet.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR signal (2)
