.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" This manpage is Copyright (C) 1992 Drew Eckhardt;
.\"                               1993 Michael Haardt, Ian Jackson.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 00:39:47 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified Fri Jan 31 16:49:53 1997 by Eric S. Raymond <esr@thyrsus.com>
.\"
.TH RMDIR 2 "24 July 1993" "Linux 0.99.7" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
rmdir \- delete a directory
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <unistd.h>
.sp
.BI "int rmdir(const char *" pathname );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B rmdir
deletes a directory, which must be empty.
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
.TP
.B EPERM
The filesystem containing
.IR pathname
does not support the removal of directories.
.TP
.B EFAULT
.IR pathname " points outside your accessible address space."
.TP
.B EACCES
Write access to the directory containing
.I pathname
was not allowed for the process's effective uid, or one of the
directories in
.IR pathname
did not allow search (execute) permission.
.TP
.B EPERM
The directory containing
.I pathname
has the sticky-bit
.RB ( S_ISVTX )
set and the process's effective uid is neither the uid of the file to
be deleted nor that of the directory containing it.
.TP
.B ENAMETOOLONG
.IR pathname " was too long."
.TP
.B ENOENT
A directory component in
.I pathname
does not exist or is a dangling symbolic link.
.TP
.B ENOTDIR
.IR pathname ,
or a component used as a directory in
.IR pathname ,
is not, in fact, a directory.
.TP
.B ENOTEMPTY
.I pathname
contains entries other than
.BR . " and " .. " ."
.TP
.B EBUSY
.I pathname
is the current working directory or root directory of some process.
.TP
.B ENOMEM
Insufficient kernel memory was available.
.TP
.B EROFS
.I pathname
refers to a file on a read-only filesystem.
.TP
.B ELOOP
Too many symbolic links were encountered in resolving
.IR pathname .
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
SVr4, SVID, POSIX, BSD 4.3
.SH BUGS
Infelicities in the protocol underlying NFS can cause the unexpected
disappearance of directories which are still being used.
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR rename (2),
.BR mkdir (2),
.BR chdir (2),
.BR unlink (2),
.BR rmdir (1),
.BR rm (1)
