.\" Copyright (C) 1998 Andries Brouwer (aeb@cwi.nl)
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.TH SYSCALLS 2 "12 April 1996" "Linux 2.0" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
none \- list of all system calls
.SH SYNOPSIS
Linux 2.0 system calls.
.SH DESCRIPTION
As of Linux 2.0.34, there are 164 system calls listed in
.IR /usr/include/asm/unistd.h .
This man page lists them (providing hyperlinks if you read this
with a browser).

_llseek(2),
_newselect(2),
_sysctl(2),
access(2),
acct(2),
adjtimex(2),
afs_syscall,
alarm(2),
bdflush(2),
break,
brk(2),
chdir(2),
chmod(2),
chown(2),
chroot(2),
clone(2),
close(2),
creat(2),
create_module(2),
delete_module(2),
dup(2),
dup2(2),
execve(2),
exit(2),
fchdir(2),
fchmod(2),
fchown(2),
fcntl(2),
fdatasync(2),
flock(2),
fork(2),
fstat(2),
fstatfs(2),
fsync(2),
ftime,
ftruncate(2),
get\%_kernel_syms(2),
get\%dents(2),
get\%egid(2),
get\%euid(2),
get\%gid(2),
get\%groups(2),
get\%itimer(2),
get\%pgid(2),
get\%pgrp(2),
get\%pid(2),
get\%ppid(2),
get\%priority(2),
get\%rlimit(2),
get\%rusage(2),
get\%sid(2),
get\%timeofday(2),
get\%uid(2),
gtty,
idle(2),
init_module(2),
ioctl(2),
io\%perm(2),
iopl(2),
ipc(2),
kill(2),
link(2),
lock,
lseek(2),
lstat(2),
mkdir(2),
mknod(2),
mlock(2),
mlockall(2),
mmap(2),
modify_ldt(2),
mount(2),
mprotect(2),
mpx,
mremap(2),
msync(2),
munlock(2),
munlockall(2),
munmap(2),
nanosleep(2),
nice(2),
oldfstat, oldlstat, oldolduname, oldstat, olduname,
open(2),
pause(2),
personality(2),
phys,
pipe(2),
prof, profil,
ptrace(2),
quotactl(2),
read(2),
readdir(2),
readlink(2),
readv(2),
reboot(2),
rename(2),
rmdir(2),
sched_\%get_\%priority_max(2),
sched_\%get_\%priority_min(2),
sched_\%get\%param(2),
sched_\%get\%scheduler(2),
sched_\%rr_get_interval(2),
sched_\%set\%param(2),
sched_\%set\%scheduler(2),
sched_\%yield(2),
select(2),
set\%domainname(2),
set\%fsgid(2),
set\%fsuid(2),
set\%gid(2),
set\%groups(2),
set\%hostname(2),
set\%itimer(2),
set\%pgid(2),
set\%priority(2),
set\%regid(2),
set\%reuid(2),
set\%rlimit(2),
set\%sid(2),
set\%timeofday(2),
set\%uid(2),
setup(2),
sgetmask(2),
sigaction(2),
signal(2),
sigpending(2),
sigprocmask(2),
sigreturn(2),
sigsuspend(2),
socketcall(2),
ssetmask(2),
stat(2),
statfs(2),
stime(2),
stty,
swapoff(2),
swapon(2),
symlink(2),
sync(2),
sysfs(2),
sysinfo(2),
syslog(2),
time(2),
times(2),
truncate(2),
ulimit,
umask(2),
umount(2),
uname(2),
unlink(2),
uselib(2),
ustat(2),
utime(2),
vhangup(2),
vm86(2),
wait4(2),
waitpid(2),
write(2),
writev(2).

Of the above, 5 are obsolete, namely
oldfstat, oldlstat, oldolduname, oldstat and olduname
(see also obsolete(2)),
and 11 are unimplemented, namely
afs_syscall, break, ftime, gtty, lock, mpx, phys, prof, profil,
stty and ulimit (see also unimplemented(2)).
However, ftime(3), profil(3) and ulimit(3) exist as library routines.
The slot for phys is in use since 2.1.116 for umount2;
phys will never be implemented.

Roughly speaking, the code belonging to the system call
with number __NR_xxx defined in
.I /usr/include/asm/unistd.h
can be found in the kernel source in the routine
.IR sys_xxx() .
(The dispatch table for i386 can be found in
.IR /usr/src/linux/arch/i386/kernel/entry.S .)
There are many exceptions, however, mostly because
older system calls were superseded by newer ones,
and this has been treated somewhat unsystematically.
Below the details for Linux 2.0.34.

The defines __NR_oldstat and __NR_stat refer to the routines
sys_stat() and sys_newstat(), and similarly for
.I fstat
and
.IR lstat .
Similarly, the defines __NR_oldolduname, __NR_olduname and
__NR_uname refer to the routines sys_olduname(), sys_uname()
and sys_newuname().
Thus, __NR_stat and __NR_uname have always referred to the latest
version of the system call, and the older ones are for backward
compatibility.

It is different with
.I select
and
.IR mmap .
These use five or more parameters, and caused problems the way
parameter passing on the i386 used to be set up. Thus, while
other architectures have sys_select() ans sys_mmap() corresponding
to __NR_select and __NR_mmap, on i386 one finds old_select()
and old_mmap() (routines that use a pointer to a
parameter block) instead. These days passing five parameters
is not a problem anymore, and there is a __NR__newselect (used by
libc 6) that corresponds directly to sys_select().

Two other system call numbers, __NR__llseek and __NR__sysctl
have an additional underscore absent in sys_llseek() and sys_sysctl().

Then there is __NR_readdir corresponding to old_readdir(),
which will read at most one directory entry at a time, and is
superseded by sys_getdents().

Finally, the system call 166, with entry point sys_vm86()
does not have a symbolic number at all. This version supersedes
sys_vm86old() with number __NR_vm86.
