.\" Hey Emacs! This file is -*- nroff -*- source.
.\"
.\" Copyright (c) 1992 Drew Eckhardt (drew@cs.colorado.edu), March 28, 1992
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to make and distribute verbatim copies of this
.\" manual provided the copyright notice and this permission notice are
.\" preserved on all copies.
.\"
.\" Permission is granted to copy and distribute modified versions of this
.\" manual under the conditions for verbatim copying, provided that the
.\" entire resulting derived work is distributed under the terms of a
.\" permission notice identical to this one
.\" 
.\" Since the Linux kernel and libraries are constantly changing, this
.\" manual page may be incorrect or out-of-date.  The author(s) assume no
.\" responsibility for errors or omissions, or for damages resulting from
.\" the use of the information contained herein.  The author(s) may not
.\" have taken the same level of care in the production of this manual,
.\" which is licensed free of charge, as they might when working
.\" professionally.
.\" 
.\" Formatted or processed versions of this manual, if unaccompanied by
.\" the source, must acknowledge the copyright and authors of this work.
.\"
.\" Modified by Michael Haardt <michael@moria.de>
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 13:03:05 1993 by Rik Faith <faith@cs.unc.edu>
.\" Modified 10 June 1995 by Andries Brouwer <aeb@cwi.nl>
.\"
.TH UTIME 2 "10 June 1995" "Linux" "Linux Programmer's Manual"
.SH NAME
utime, utimes \- change access and/or modification times of an inode
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B #include <sys/types.h>
.br
.B #include <utime.h>
.sp
.BI "int utime(const char *" filename ", struct utimbuf *" buf );
.sp 2
.B #include <sys/time.h>
.sp
.BI "int utimes(char *" filename ", struct timeval *" tvp );
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B utime
changes the access and modification times of the inode specified by
.I filename
to the
.IR actime " and " modtime
fields of 
.I buf
respectively.  If
.I buf
is
.BR NULL ,
then the access and modification times of the file are set to the current
time.  The
.I utimbuf
structure is:

.RS
.nf
struct utimbuf {
        time_t actime;  /* access time */
        time_t modtime; /* modification time */
};
.fi
.RE

In the Linux DLL 4.4.1 libraries,
.B utimes
is just a wrapper for
.BR utime :
.IR tvp [0]. tv_sec
is
.IR actime ,
and
.IR tvp [1]. tv_sec
is
.IR modtime .
The
.I timeval
structure is:

.RS
.nf
struct timeval {
        long    tv_sec;         /* seconds */
        long    tv_usec;        /* microseconds */
};
.fi
.RE
.SH "RETURN VALUE"
On success, zero is returned.  On error, \-1 is returned, and
.I errno
is set appropriately.
.SH ERRORS
Other errors may occur.

.TP
.B EACCES
Permission to write the file is denied.
.TP
.B ENOENT
.I filename
does not exist.
.SH "CONFORMING TO"
.BR utime :
SVr4, SVID, POSIX.  SVr4 documents additional error conditions EFAULT,
EINTR, ELOOP, EMULTIHOP, ENAMETOOLONG, ENOLINK, ENOTDIR,
ENOLINK, ENOTDIR, EPERM, EROFS.
.br
.BR utimes :
BSD 4.3
.SH "SEE ALSO"
.BR stat (2)
