.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 16:59:10 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated Tue Jul 2 1996 by
.\"   Ignacio Arenaza (Ignacio.Arenaza@studi.epfl.ch)
.\" Translation revised June 16 1998 by Juan Piernas <piernas@dif.um.es>
.\" Translation revised on Tue Apr 6 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH MEM 4 "21 Noviembre 1992" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
mem, kmem, port \- memoria del sistema, memoria del núcleo y puertos
del sistema.
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBmem\fP es un fichero de dispositivo de caracteres que representa
a la memoria principal del ordenador. Se puede utilizar, por
ejemplo, para examinar (e incluso parchear) el sistema.
.LP
En \fBmem\fP, las direcciones de bytes se interpretan como direcciones
físicas de memoria. Las referencias a posiciones no existentes
producen un error.
.LP
El examinar y parchear posiciones de memoria que contienen bits de
sólo-lectura o sólo-escritura puede conducir a resultados inesperados.
.LP
Normalmente se crea con:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/mem c 1 1
.br
chown root:mem /dev/mem
.sp
.RE
.LP
El archivo \fBkmem\fP es idéntico a \fBmem\fP, excepto que se accede a
la memoria virtual del núcleo, en vez de a la memoria física.
.LP
Normalmente se crea con:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 640 /dev/kmem c 1 2
.br
chown root:mem /dev/kmem
.sp
.RE
.LP
\fBport\fP es similar a \fBmem\fP, pero se accede a los puertos de E/S.
.LP
Normalmente se crea con:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/port c 1 4
.br
chown root:mem /dev/port
.sp
.RE
.SH FICHEROS
/dev/mem
.br
/dev/kmem
.br
/dev/port
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR mknod "(1), " chown "(1), " ioperm (2)
