.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\" 
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:00:12 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated Sun Jun 30 1996 by
.\"   Ignacio Arenaza (Ignacio.Arenaza@studi.epfl.ch)
.\" Translation revised June 6 1998
.\" Translation revised on Tue Apr 6 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH NULL 4 "30 Junio 1996" "Linux" "Manual del programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
null, zero \- sumidero de datos
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
Los datos escritos en los ficheros especiales \fBnull\fP o \fBzero\fP
se desechan.
.PP
La lectura del fichero especial \fBnull\fP siempre devuelve "fin de
fichero (EOF)", mientras que la lectura del fichero \fBzero\fP siempre
devuelve el caracteres \e0 (NULL).
.LP
\fBnull\fP y \fBzero\fP se crean normalmente con:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 666 /dev/null c 1 3
.br
mknod -m 666 /dev/zero c 1 5
.br
chown root:mem /dev/null /dev/zero
.sp
.RE
.SH NOTAS
Si estos dos ficheros no tienen permiso de lectura y escritura para
todos los usuarios, muchos programas se comportarán de manera extraña.
.SH FICHEROS
/dev/null
.br
/dev/zero
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR mknod "(1), " chown (1)
