.\" Copyright (c) 1993 Michael Haardt (michael@moria.de), Fri Apr  2 11:32:09 MET DST 1993
.\"
.\" This is free documentation; you can redistribute it and/or
.\" modify it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as
.\" published by the Free Software Foundation; either version 2 of
.\" the License, or (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" The GNU General Public License's references to "object code"
.\" and "executables" are to be interpreted as the output of any
.\" document formatting or typesetting system, including
.\" intermediate and printed output.
.\"
.\" This manual is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE.  See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public
.\" License along with this manual; if not, write to the Free
.\" Software Foundation, Inc., 59 Temple Place, Suite 330, Boston, MA 02111,
.\" USA.
.\"
.\" Modified Sat Jul 24 17:03:24 1993 by Rik Faith (faith@cs.unc.edu)
.\" Translated Sun Jun 30 1996 by Ignacio Arenaza
.\"   (Ignacio.Arenaza@studi.epfl.ch) 
.\" Translation revised on Wed May 13 1998 by
.\" 	Gerardo Aburruzaga García <gerardo.aburruzaga@uca.es>
.\" Translation revised on Tue Apr 6 1999 by Juan Piernas <piernas@ditec.um.es>
.\"
.TH TTYS 4 "30 Junio 1996" "Linux" "Manual del Programador de Linux"
.SH NOMBRE
ttys \- líneas serie de terminales
.SH DESCRIPCIÓN
\fBttyS[0-3]\fP son los dispositivos de carácter para las líneas serie
de terminales.
.LP
Normalmente se crean con:
.RS
.sp
mknod -m 660 /dev/ttyS0 c 4 64 # dir. base 0x03f8
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/ttyS1 c 4 65 # dir. base 0x02f8
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/ttyS2 c 4 66 # dir. base 0x03e8
.br
mknod -m 660 /dev/ttyS3 c 4 67 # dir. base 0x02e8
.br
chown root:tty /dev/ttyS[0-3]
.sp
.RE
.SH FICHEROS
/dev/ttyS[0-3]
.SH "VÉASE TAMBIÉN"
.BR mknod "(1), " chown "(1), " getty "(1), "
.BR tty (4).
